Literature is the true mirror of society.
A writer is considered a keen observer of the incidents taking place in society.
Munshi Premchand was a sincere observer of the incidents of contemporary.
Godan is regarded as an immortal novel.
Premchand has highlighted various aspects of life of a poor farmer living in rural area during British rule.
This was the time when the condition of peasant was very pathetic.
Munshi Premchand was also focussing on the issues like exploitation, Untouchability, poverty, hunger, illiteracy etc.
He has beautifully highlighted the helplessness of a poor farmer.
Undoubtedly Premchand is known as the greatest novelist in Hindi.
He has composed more than 300 short stories.
Godan is the last complete novel written by Premchand and was published in the year 1936.
The novel ‘GODAN’ presents before us the social, economical, and political situation of India during British rule.
The story of the novel presents the pathetic condition of poor Indian peasant being exploited  by the Britishers and local zamindar.
The poor farmers were helpless ,there was no one who could came forward and help them.
They were compelled to bear the tyranny of the British rule.
Thus Godan is the story of naked poverty, incessant, hunger and ruthless exploitation of the poor in Indian society.
The  main character of the novel is Hori, a poor farmer.
He has Dhania as his wife , Gobar as his son and Rupa & Sona are his two daughter.
The novel began with a scene where Hori is in hurry to go to zamindar , Rai Shaib place.
He was called by the zamindar to convey a message to other farmers of village.
Hori is informed by zamindar that all the villagers have to contribute rupees 500 to him so that a program in the near future can be organised.
When the zamindar conveyed this message to him he was in great furry.
Hori was extremely in a fearful state.
He was not able to understand as to how the money on his part will be managed to be contributed to the zamindar.
Hori informed his family members about the order of zamindar.
At this Gobar and Dhania revolted openly.
But Hori kept his calm and made them understand by saying “One cannot fight with the crocodile while living in water”.
There is another important character in this novel i.e.
Bhola.
He was a widower and was willingness to marry again.
Actually Bhola was kind hearted and noble person.
He was a member of lower caste.
He was 50 year old .
He dealt in milk and cow.
His two son are already married.
He had a young widow daughter, Jhunia at his house.
On the other hand Hori had a great desire to have a cow at his house.
At this point of time Hori developed a plan in his mind as he had no money he decided to trick Bhola by virtue of clever policy to get a cow without paying instant money.
Hori and Gobar go to Bhola’s house to bring the cow.
Gobar meets Jhunia at Bhola’s house.
When cow was brought to Hori’s house it became a matter of envy for the neighbours.
A fight took place between Dhania and Heera, Hori’s brother.
Due to enmity the cow was poisoned.
Thus Hori’s desire of having cow remains unfulfilled.
Gobar is having a love affair with Jhunia.
Dhania came to know about this affair.
The couple, Hori and Dhania discuss about it and they do not approve this.
Gobar does not follow the instruction of his parents and bring Jhunia at his house.
Gobar went to Lucknow with a resolve that he would return after making some money.
Thus for humanity they accepted Jhunia as their daughter-in-law.
This act of humanity brought a great trouble for Hori.
The community of village imposed a fine rupees 100 on Hori.
Hori was facing all short of problems.
He had no money on the other hand Gobar had fled to the town.
He was residing in Lucknow while his wife was living with Hori and Dhania.
Bhola was also pressing Hori to give the price of cow.
One day Bhola came to Hori’s house to take away Hori’s two bullocks in exchange of the cow.
At this point of time Hori was surrounded by all short of problems.
Actually Bhola was victim of Dattadin’s conspiracy and was playing in the hands of Dattadin.
After some days Hori meet his sad demise.
After his death Dhania, Hori’s wife was asked by the priest to do “GODAN”, charity of cow for the peace of his soul.
But because of money issues she could not afford a cow so instead of cow she gave 1 repees 25 paise to the priest as everything for the ceremony of her husband death.
Oedipus the king is a masterpiece of Sophocles.
This is a beautiful play.
This play fall under the category of tragedy, which highlights the role of charm and faith.
This play also shows a big disaster and such disaster is beyond human imagination.
The play begins with Oedipus, the King of Thebes addressing the people of Thebes.
The kingdom was in a big problem due a plague.
They have come to ask for the help from Oedipus and want him do something to rescue them from the pandemic.
Oedipus sent Creon to God Apollo for asking the real cause of the plague.
Further Oedipus was informed that this calamity is caused because of the killer of king Laius as the killer is still not arrested and punished.
Tiresias was called by Oedipus to know about the killer of King Laius.
He strategically tells that the killer is right here and was rounding his words and was not clear.
Then Oedipus blamed that Creon and Tiresias are involved in this conspiracy.
He discussed the matter with the people of his court.
He expressed the probability that Jocasta slayed king in a fit of rag.
At this Jocasta says that she had lost her son due a prophecy, therefore she utters- “And I will no more torn mine eyes, this ay nor that for all their prophecy”.
Laius, king of Thebes and Jocasta, Queen of Thebes had a son.
God Apollo warned then that his son would kill him and marry his own mother.
At this they decided that they would kill him in order to escape prophecy.
They handed the child to shepherd and instructed him to leave the child in the forest.
The Shepherd felt pity for the child and he handed the child to the messenger.
The child was brought to Corinth by the messenger and he handed the child to the king of Corinth, Polybus and Queen Merope.
The royal couple had no child so they adopted the child.
The child was named Oedipus.
He grew young and handsome.
He was brave and very intelligent.
He was always taunted for his parentage.
One day Oedipus met Oracle of Delphi and asked about his parentage.
Oracle did not tell about the real parentage but he tells him that he would kill his father and marry his mother.
He loves his parents so he decided to leave Corinth in order to make prophecy wrong.
While journey to unknown place he met a man, he was non other than king Laius but he was unaware about the fact.
They had a dual fight and king Laius was killed.
The first prophecy of Oracle became true.
He headed towards Thebes and met a monster named Sphinx.
This monster use to ask a riddle to each and every visitor, and who could not answer he would kill that person.
But when Sphinx asked Oedipus, he successfully gave the answer and he killed Sphinx.
The people of Thebes wanted him to became the king of Thebes after the death of Laius as he killed Sphinx and saved them.
Later he married Jocasta and had two sons named Polynices and Eteocles.
They had two daughters also named Antigone and Ismene.
When they were having discussion about the assassin of King Laius, after some time, the messenger from Corinth arrived to inform Oedipus about the death of his father, king Polybus.
At this event he relates this incident with the prophecy that- “he would kill his father and marry his own mother” and says how he fled to avoid the killing of his father.
At this the messenger revealed that he was adopted child of king Polybus and Queen Merope.
Jocasta tell Oedipus that this is the same kind of prophecy made for his son.
After saying this Jocasta realised everything and stops Oedipus for further investigating.
But Oedipus did not listen to her and digs into the matter.
Very soon he arrived at the conclusion that he the son of dead king and Jocasta.
He was very shocked that he murdered his father and married his mother.
Knowing this Jocasta in guilt killed herself and Oedipus self-blinded himself and left the king position.
It was the writer’s first day at school.
It was bitter cold.
A large bell rang for breakfast.
Shoes clattered on bare floors.
Many voices murmured.
A paleface woman, with white hair, came up after them.
They were placed in a line of girls who were marching into the dinning room.
She walked noiselessly in her soft moccasins.
She felt like sinking to the floor, for her blanket had been removed from her shoulders.
The Indian girls did not seem to care though they were more immodestly dressed in tight fitting clothes.
The boys entered at an opposite door.
A small bell was tapped.
Each of the pupils drew a chair from under the table.
The writer pulled out hers.
She at once slipped into it from one side.
She turned her head.
She found that she was the only one seated.
All the rest at their table remained standing.
She began to rise.
A second bell sounded.
All were seated at last.
She heard a man’s voice at the end of the hall.
She looked around to see him.
All the others hung their heads over their plates.
She found the paleface woman looking at her.
The man stopped his mutterings.
Then a third bell was tapped.
Everyone picked up his knife and fork and began eating.
She began to cry.
This eating by formula was a difficult experience.
Late in the morning her friend Judewin told her that she had overheard the paleface woman talk about cutting their long heavy hair.
Among their people, short hair was worn by mourners and shingled hair by cowards.
Judewin said that they had to submit because the school authorities were strong.
The writer rebelled.
She decided to struggle before submitting.
When no one noticed, she disappeared and crept upstairs.
She hid herself under the bed in a large room with three white beds in it.
She heard loud voices in the hall calling her name.
Even Judewin was searching for her.
She did not open her mouth to answer.
The sound of steps came nearer and nearer.
Women and girls entered the room.
They searched her everywhere.
Someone threw up the curtains.
The room was filled with sudden light.
They stopped and looked under the bed.
She was dragged out.
She resisted by kicking and scratching wildly.
She was carried downstairs and tied fast in a chair.
She cried aloud and shook her head.
Then she felt the cold blade of scissors against her neck.
One of her thick braids was removed.
Her long hair was being shingled like a coward’s.
Since the day she had come here, she had suffered insults.
People had stared at her.
She had been tossed about in the air like a wooden puppet.
She moaned for her mother, but no one came to comfort her.
Now she was only one of many little animals driven by a herder.
II.
We Too are Human Beings (Bama)

When Bama was studying in the third class, she had not yet heard people speak openly of untouchability.
But she had already seen, felt, experienced and been humiliated by what it was.
She was walking home from school one day.
It was possible to walk the distance in ten minutes, but it would usually take her at least thirty minutes.
She watched all the fun and games, novelties and oddities in the streets, the shops and the bazaar.
Each thing would pull her to a standstill and not allow her to go any further.
Speeches by leaders of political parties, street plays, puppet show, stunt performances or some other entertainment happened from time to time.
She watched waiters pouring coffee in other tumbler to cool it, people chopping up onion with eyes turned to other side, or almonds blown down from the tree by the wind.
According to the season, there would be various fruit.
She saw people selling sweet and tasty snacks, payasam, halva and iced lollies.
One day she saw in her street, a threshing floor set up in the corner.
Their people were driving cattle in pairs round and round to crush the grain from straw.
The animals were muzzled.
She saw the landlord seated on a piece of sacking spread over a stone slab.
He was watching the proceedings.
She stood there for a while, watching the fun.
Just then, she saw an elder of their street coming from the direction of the bazaar.
He looked quite funny in his manner.
He held out a packet by its string without touching it.
Then he went to the landlord, bowed low and extended the packet towards him.
He cupped the hand that held the string with his other hand.
The landlord opened the parcel and began to eat the vadais.
She told her elder brother the story with its comic details.
Annan was not amused.
He told her that the elder was carrying the package for his upper caste landlord.
These people believed that people of lower caste should not touch them.
If they did, they would be polluted.
That was the reason why he had to carry the package by the string.
She became sad on listening all this.
She felt angry towards the people of upper castes.
She thought that these miserly people, who had collected money somehow, had lost all human feelings.
But the lower castes were also human beings.
They should not do petty jobs for them.
They should work in their fields, take their wages home, and leave it at that.
Annan, her elder brother, was studying at a university.
He had come home for the holidays.
He would often go to the library in their neighbouring village in order to borrow books.
One day, one of the landlord’s men met him.
Thinking him to be a stranger, he addressed Annan respectfully.
His manner changed on knowing his name and he asked for the street he lived in.
The street would indicate their caste.
Annan told her that they were not given any honour, dignity or respect because they were born in a particular community.
He advised her to study and make progress.
People will come to her of their own accord then.
She studied hard and stood first in her class.
Many people then became her friends.
In July 1976, the narrator, a 37 year-old businessman, his wife Mary, six year old son, Jonathan and seven year old daughter, Suzanne set sail from Plymouth, England.
They wished to go round the world on a long sea journey as Captain James Cook had done 200 years earlier.
They started in 23 metre, 30 ton wooden-hulled boat named Wavewalker.
The first part of their planned three-year, 105,000 kilometre journey passed pleasantly.
They sailed down the west coast of Africa to Cape Town.
They took on two crewmen-Larry Vigil, an American and Herb Seigler, a Swiss to help them cross the rough southern Indian Ocean.
On their second day out of Cape Town, they faced extremely strong winds, which blew continuously for next few weeks.
Waves rose up to 15 metres.
On December 25, they were 3500 kilometres east of Cape Town.
Though the weather was very bad, they enjoyed Christmas and New Year’s Day.
The weather changed for the worse.
On January 2, there were mighty waves.
They were sailing at eight knots.
They slowed down the boat by dropping the small sail and fastened mooring rope in a loop across the hind part of the boat.
Then they attached lifelines, put on water proof clothes and life jackets and waited for the storm.
The first sign of the imminent disaster came as portentous silence.
The wind dropped and the sky immediately grew dark.
Then came a growing roar and a very huge wave.
A tremendous explosion shook the deck.
The narrator’s head struck on the wheel and he flew over the side of the boat into water.
He was sinking below the waves.
He accepted his coming death.
Suddenly his head appeared out of water.
A few metres away Wavewalker was about to turn over in water.
Then a wave threw her upright.
Succeeding waves threw the narrator around the deck like a rag doll.
His left ribs cracked.
His mouth was filled with blood and broken teeth.
He, somehow, found the wheel and lined up the stern for the next wave.
There was water .everywhere on the ship, but he could not leave his place in order to investigate the situation.
Suddenly his wife, Mary, opened the door in the deck and shouted that they were sinking as the decks were broken.
The narrator asked her to take the wheel.
Then he moved quickly to the door.
Larry and Herb were pumping water out of the ship.
The wooden beams had broken.
The whole starboard side had bulged inwards.
Clothes, crockery, charts, tins and toys moved around noisily in water.
He crawled into the children’s cabin.
Sue had got a big bump on her head.
He had no time to attend to her.
He found a hammer, screws and canvas and started repair work.
He managed to stretch canvas and secure water proof hatch covers across the gaping holes.
Most of the water was now being deflected over the side.
Then the hand pumps started to block up with debris.
The electric pump had a short circuit.
Water level rose up dangerously.
He found that their two spare hand pumps had been pulled away by currents along with the forestay sail, the jib, the dinghies and the main anchor.
He searched another electric pump, connected it to an outpipe and water was pumped out throughout night.
They got no replies from their Mayday calls.
Sue’s head had swollen alarmingly.
She had two enormous black eyes and a deep cut on her arm.
On the morning of January 3, the pumps had reduced the amount of water on board.
Each of them took rest for two hours turn by turn.
They had survived for 15 hours since the wave hit the Wavewalker, but she was not strong enough to take them to Australia.
He checked the charts.
He calculated that there were two small islands a few hundred kilometres to the east.
He hoped to reach Le Amsterdam, a French scientific base.
On January 4, after 36 hours of continuous pumping, they reached the last few centimetres of water.
Now they had to keep pace with the water still coming in.
Mary found some corned beef and cracker biscuits.
They ate their first meal in almost two days.
Their relief was short lived.
At 4 pm black clouds began building up.
Within an hour, the wind was back to 40 knots.
The seas were getting higher.
Throughout the night, the weather became worse.
By dawn on January 5, their situation was extremely dangerous.
The narrator went in to comfort the children.
Jon asked if they were going to die.
The narrator tried to assure him that they could make it.
Then Jon said.
“We aren’t afraid of dying if we can all be together.” The narrator could find no words to respond.
He determined to fight the sea.
To protect the weak starboards side, he decided to stop the ship with the undamaged port-hull facing the on coming waves.
He used an improvised sea anchor of heavy nylon rope and two 22 litre plastic barrels of paraffin.
More water rushed in through the broken planks in the evening.
On the morning of January 6, the wind became less severe.
The narrator got a reading on the sextant.
He made quick calculations.
She came in and gave him a card she had made.
She had drawn caricatures of Mary and the narrator.
It also had a message expressing love and thanks.
At 2 p.m., after checking calculations, the narrator asked Larry to steer a course of 185 degrees.
He could then expect to see an island at about 5 p.m. Then he went below, climbed on his bunk and dozed off.
He woke up at 6 p.m. Jon entered and asked if he could embrace his Daddy.
She was right behind him.
They called him the best daddy in the whole world and the best captain.
They informed him that they had found the island.
The narrator rushed on deck.
He saw the outline of the island of Ile Amsterdam.
That night they anchored offshore.
The next morning all 28 inhabitants of the island cheered them and helped them ashore.
After reaching the land, the narrator thought of Larry and Herbie.
They had been cheerful under direst stress, Mary had stayed at the wheel for those crucial hours.
Then he thought of his seven year old girl, who did not want them to worry about her head injury and of the six-year old boy who was not afraid to die.
The scene of action is a spot on the Japanese coast.
Dr Sadao Hoki’s house was a low, square stone built house.
It was set upon rocks well above a narrow beach outlined with bent pines.
Sadao’s father had a deep concern for his son’s education.
So Sadao had been sent to America at twenty-two to learn all that could be learned of surgery and medicine there.
He returned at thirty.
He became famous not only as a surgeon but as a scientist also.
It was the time of the World War.
Japan was at war with America.
Dr Sadao had not been sent abroad with the troops.
The old General was under medical treatment and he might need an operation.
So, Dr Sadao was being kept in Japan.
Sadao watched mists hide outlines of a little island near the shore.
Then it came creeping up the beach below his house.
His wife, Hana, came out and put her hand on his arm.
It gave him pleasure.
Then she laid her cheek against his arm.
At this moment, both of them saw something black come out of the mists.
It was a man.
He staggered a few steps.
Then the curled mists hid him again.
Hana and Sadao leaned over the railing of the veranda.
They saw a man crawling on his hands and knees.
Then he fell down on his face and lay there.
They thought that it was perhaps a fisherman who had been washed from his boat.
When they came towards him, they saw that he was wounded.
He lay motionless.
They saw his face.
Hana whispered that he was “a white man”.
Sadao began to search for the wound.
Blood flowed freshly at his touch.
In order to stanch the fearful bleeding, he packed the wound with the sea moss.
The man was unconscious.
He moaned with pain in his stupor but he did not awaken.
Sadao muttered, “What shall we do with this man?” He said that the best thing that they could do was to put him back in the sea.
Hana agreed with it.
Sadao explained that it was a difficult situation.
If they sheltered a white man in their house, they would be arrested.
If they turned him over as a prisoner, he would certainly die.
They were staring upon the inert figure with a curious repulsion.
Then they tried to find out what he was.
He looked American.
The battered cap had faint lettering “US Navy”.
They concluded that he was a sailor from an American warship.
The man was a prisoner of war.
He had escaped and was wounded in the back.
Hana asked Sadao if they were able to put him back into the sea.
Sadao hesitated.
If the man had been whole, he could be turned over to the police without difficulty as he was his enemy.
All Americans were his enemy.
But since he was wounded they should not throw him back to the sea.
Hana observed that there was only one thing left to do.
They must carry him into their house.
Sadao was not sure about the reaction of the servants.
Hana suggested that they must tell the servants that they intended to give him to the police.
She said that they must do so, otherwise all of them would be in danger.
Together they lifted the man.
He was very light.
They carried him up the steps and into the side door of the passage.
They carried him to an empty bedroom.
Since the man was quite dirty, Sadao suggested that he had better be washed.
If she fetched the water, he would wash the man.
Hana could not bear him to touch the man.
She offered to tell the maid Yumi.
Sadao took the responsibility of informing others.
The pallor of the unconscious man’s face moved him first to stoop and feel his pulse.
It was faint but it was there.
He put his hand against the man’s cold breast.
The heart too was yet alive.
Sadao observed that he would die unless operated upon.
The man was very young perhaps not even twenty-five.
The man had to be washed first.
However, the servants refused to do so.
They did not want their master to heal the enemy.
Hana washed the man till his upper body was quite clean.
Sadao put his instruments upon a sterilised towel.
He began to wash the man’s back carefully.
He asked Hana to give the anaesthetic if he needed it.
Hana choked.
She clapped her hands to her mouth and ran out of the room.
He heard her retching in the garden.
She had never seen an operation.
Sadao proceeded swiftly.
Hana came in.
Sadao asked her to saturate the cotton and hold it near his nostrils.
She had to move it away a little when he breathed badly.
Then Sadao got busy.
He felt the tip of his instrument strike against something hard.
It was just near his kidney.
Then with the cleanest and most precise incision, the bullet was out.
The man quivered, but he was still unconscious.
Sadao gave him an injection and the man’s pulse grew stronger.
Hana had to serve the youngman herself, for none of the servants would enter the room.
The man grew stronger day by day.
The servants decided to quit if their master kept the enemy hidden there.
On the seventh day, the servants left together.
Hana carried the morning food to the prisoner.
On coming back, she asked Sadao why they could not see clearly what they ought to do.
In the afternoon, a messenger came in official uniform.
He asked Dr Sadao to come to the palace at once as the old General was in pain.
Hana breathed a sigh of relief.
When Sadao came to say good bye, she revealed her fear.
She had thought that they had come to arrest him.
Sadao promised to get rid of that man for her sake.
Sadao told the General about the man he had operated upon.
The General acknowledged why Sadao was indispensable to him.
The General promised to send his private assassins to kill the man and remove his body.
He asked Sadao to leave the outer partition of the white man’s room to the garden open while he slept.
Sadao went home, thinking over the plan.
He would tell Hana nothing.
He was surprised to see the young American out of bed and preparing to go into the garden.
He complained that the muscles on one side felt stiff.
Dr Sadao said that exercise and massage will be helpful.
He then asked Tom, the young American to go to bed.
Sadao slept badly that night.
The next morning, Sadao went to the guest room and found him asleep.
The second night also passed.
The young man was still there.
He had shaved himself.
There was a faint colour in his cheeks.
Dr Sadao told him that he was quite well then.
He offered to put his boat on the shore that night.
It would have food and extra clothing in it.
Tom might be able to row to that little island not far from the coast.
It had not been fortified.
Nobody lived there as it was submerged in storm.
Since it was not the season of storm, he could live there till he saw a Korean fishing boat pass by.
As soon as it was dark, Sadao made preparations to help the young man escape.
He gave him his flashlight.
He asked him to give him two flashes as the sun set in case his food ran out.
In case he was still there and all right, he was to signal him only one.
He was warned not to signal in darkness, for it would be seen.
The prisoner was now dressed in Japanese clothes.
A black cloth was wrapped round his blond head.
He found the way to the boat.
Sadao waited till he saw one flash from the shore.
Dr Sadao had been called in the night to perform an emergency operation on the General.
It involved his gall bladder.
For twelve hours Sadao had not been sure the General would live.
Then he began to breathe deeply again and to demand for food.
Sadao had not been able to ask about the assassins.
So far as he knew they had never come.
The servants had returned.
The room was cleaned.
One week after the operation, Sadao felt that the General was well enough to be spoken to about the prisoner.
Sadao informed him that the prisoner had escaped.
The General asked the doctor whether he had not promised to kill the man for the doctor.
He then confessed the truth.
He had been suffering a great deal.
So, he thought of nothing but himself.
He had forgotten his promise.
That night Sadao waited at dusk for the light from the island.
There was none.
His prisoner had gone away and was safe.
Sadao wondered why he could not kill the young man though white people were repulsive.
The author started her journey in a Russian research vessel, ‘Akademik Shokalskiy’ bound for Antarctica.
Her journey began 13.09 degrees north of the Equator in Madras.
She travelled over 100 hours in a combination of car, aeroplane and ship before she set foot on the Antarctic continent.
The purpose of the visit was to know more about Antarctica.
The author stayed there for two weeks.
It is a place which stores 90 per cent of the Earth’s total ice volumes.
It has no trees, billboards or buildings.
The visual scene ranges from the microscopic to the mighty.
Days go on and on in 24-hour austral summer light.
Silence pervades everywhere.
It is broken only by an avalanche or calving ice-sheet.
She wondered how there could have been a time when India and Antarctica were part of the same landmass.
Geological phenomena help us to know about the history of humankind.
Six hundred and fifty million years ago, a giant southern supercontinent—Gondwana—did exist.
It was centred roughly around present-day Antarctica.
The climate was much warmer then.
There was a variety of flora and fauna.
Humans had not arrived on the global scene yet.
Gondwana thrived for 500 million years.
Then came the time when the dinosaurs were wiped out and the age of mammals began.
At that time, the landmass was forced to separate into countries, shaping the globe much as we know it today.
Climate change is one of the most hotly contested environmental debates of our time.
The most hotly contested debate of our time is whether West Antarctica Ice sheets will melt entirely or not.
If we want to study the earth’s past, present and future, Antarctica is the place to go as it holds half-million-year-old carbon records trapped in its layers of ice.
Antarctica has a simple eco-system and lacks biodiversity.
It is the perfect place to study how little changes in the environment can have big repercussions.
Scientists warn that a further depletion of the ozone layer will affect the lives of the sea animals and birds of the region.
It will also affect the global carbon cycle.
The burning of fossil fuels has polluted the atmosphere.
It has created a blanket of carbon dioxide around the world.
It is increasing the global temperature which is visible at Antarctica when we see icebergs melting away.
It shows how minor changes in the atmosphere can cause a huge effect.
If the global temperature keeps on increasing, the human race may be in peril.
The author gives us an example of phytoplankton to show how small changes in the atmosphere can be threatening.
The microscopic phytoplankton is single-celled plants.
They nourish the entire Southern Ocean’s food chain.
They use the sun’s energy to assimilate carbon and supply oxygen.
Any further depletion in the ozone layer may affect this functioning and indirectly affect the lives of all marine animals.
The author gives us an example of phytoplankton to show how small changes in the atmosphere can be threatening.
The microscopic phytoplankton is single-celled plants.
They nourish the entire Southern Ocean’s food chain.
They use the sun’s energy to assimilate carbon and supply oxygen.
Any further depletion in the ozone layer may affect this functioning and indirectly affect the lives of all marine animals.
The author gives us an example of phytoplankton to show how small changes in the atmosphere can be threatening.
The microscopic phytoplankton is single-celled plants.
They nourish the entire Southern Ocean’s food chain.
They use the sun’s energy to assimilate carbon and supply oxygen.
Any further depletion in the ozone layer may affect this functioning and indirectly affect the lives of all marine animals.
The author gives us an example of phytoplankton to show how small changes in the atmosphere can be threatening.
The microscopic phytoplankton is single-celled plants.
They nourish the entire Southern Ocean’s food chain.
They use the sun’s energy to assimilate carbon and supply oxygen.
Any further depletion in the ozone layer may affect this functioning and indirectly affect the lives of all marine animals.
The Maharaja of Pratibandapuram is the hero of this story.
He also came to be known as Tiger King.
As soon as he was born, astrologers had foretold that one day the Tiger King would actually have to die.
The ten-day-old prince addressed the astrologers as “O wise prophets”.
He asked them to tell him the manner of his death.
The chief astrologer said that death would come from the Tiger.
The prince growled, “Let tigers beware!”

When the crown prince came of age at twenty, his state came into his hands.
There were many forests in the Pratibandapuram State.
They had tigers in them.
The Maharaja started out on a tiger hunt.
The Maharaja was thrilled when he killed his first tiger.
He sent for the state astrologer.
The old man said, “Your majesty may kill ninety-nine tigers in exactly the same manner.
But you must be very careful with the hundredth tiger.” The astrologer promised to tear up all his books on astrology and set fire to them, if he killed the hundredth tiger.
The state banned tiger hunting by anyone except the Maharaja.
The Maharaja vowed he would attend to all other matters only after killing the hundred tigers.
Initially the king seemed well set to realise his ambition.
He faced many dangers too.
Sometimes the bullet missed its mark.
The tiger jumped upon him.
He fought the beast with his bare hands.
Each time it was the Maharaja who won.
Once he was in danger of losing his throne.
A high-ranking British officer visited Pratibandapuram.
He was very fond of hunting tigers and fonder of being photographed with the tigers he had shot.
He wished to hunt tigers in Pratibandapuram.
The Maharaja was firm in his resolve.
He refused permission.
Since he had prevented a British officer from fulfilling his desire, the Maharaja stood in danger of losing his kingdom itself.
The Maharaja and the dewan held deliberations over this issue.
About fifty expensive diamond rings of different designs were sent to the British officer’s good lady.
The king and the minister expected her to choose one or two rings and send the rest back.
But she kept all of them and sent a letter of thanks.
The Maharaja was happy that though he had lost three lakh of rupees, he had managed to retain his kingdom.
The Maharaja’s tiger hunt continued to be highly successful.
Within ten years he had killed seventy tigers.
But then there were no tigers left in Pratibandapuram.
One day the Maharaja sent for his dewan and told him that thirty tigers still remained to be shot down by his gun.
He told the dewan that he had decided to get married.
The dewan found the right girl from a state with a large number of tigers.
Each time Maharaja Jung Jung Bahadur visited his father-in-law, he killed five or six tigers.
In this way ninety-nine tiger skins adorned the walls of the reception hall in the Pratibandapuram palace.
There remained just one tiger to be killed to reach the figure of a hundred.
But the tiger farms had now run dry even in his father-in-law’s kingdom.
It became impossible to locate tigers anywhere.
The Maharaja was sunk in gloom.
Soon he got a happy news.
In his own state sheep began to disappear frequently from a hillside village.
Surely, a tiger was at work.
The villagers ran to inform the Maharaja, but the tiger was not easily found.
The Maharaja refused to leave the forest until the tiger was found.
Maharaja’s anger and obstinacy rose higher.
Many officers lost their jobs.
One day the Tiger King was very angry.
He called the dewan and ordered him to double the land tax forthwith.
The dewan said that the people would become discontented.
Then their state too would fall a prey to the Indian National Congress.
The king asked the dewan to resign.
The dewan felt afraid.
He felt life returning to him only when he saw the tiger which had been brought from the People’s Park in Madras and kept hidden in his house.
At midnight the town was sleeping in peace.
The dewan and his aged wife dragged the old tiger to the car and shoved it into the seat.
The dewan himself drove the car straight to the forest where the Maharaja was hunting.
Now the tiger refused to get out of the car.
Somehow the dewan hauled the beast out of the car and pushed it down to the ground.
On the following day, the same old tiger wandered into the Maharaja’s presence and stood there.
It was with boundless joy that the Maharaja took careful aim at the beast.
The tiger fell in a crumpled heap.
The Maharaja was happy that his vow to kill hundred tigers had been fulfilled.
Ordering the tiger to be brought to the capital in grand procession, Maharaja left in his car.
After the Maharaja left, the hunters went to take a closer look at the tiger.
The tiger rolled its eyes and looked back at them.
The men realised that the tiger was not dead.
The bullet had missed it.
It had fainted from the shock of the bullet whizzing past.
One of the hunters took aim from a distance of one foot and shot the tiger.
The dead tiger was taken in procession through the town and buried.
A few days later the third birthday of the Maharaja’s son was celebrated.
He wished to give him some special gift on his birthday.
He spotted a wooden tiger in a toyshop and decided it was the perfect gift.
The wooden tiger cost only two annas and a quarter.
But the shopkeeper called it a bargain at three hundred rupees.
He praised it as an extremely rare example of craftsmanship.
Actually, it had been carved by an unskilled carpenter.
Its surface was rough.
Tiny slivers of wood stood up like quills all over it.
When the Maharaja was playing with his son, one of those slivers pierced the Maharaja’s right hand.
He pulled it out with his left hand and continued to play with the prince.
The next day, infection flared in the Maharaja’s right hand.
In four days, it developed into a sore emitting pus.
It spread all over his arm.
Three famous surgeons were brought in from Madras.
After holding a consultation, they decided to operate.
The operation was successful but the Maharaja died.
In this manner the hundredth tiger took its final revenge upon the Tiger King.
Charley was 31 years old man married to Louisa.
Several times he had lost himself in the Grand Central Station.
He always found himself bumping into new doorways and new corridors.
Every time he had a new experience.
He even had begun to believe that the Grand Central was like a huge tree ever pushing new tunnels and new corridors like the roots under the ground.
Once he got into a mile long tunnel and came out in the lobby of a hotel.
At another time, he came up into the building of an office.
There were certainly only two levels at the Grand Central.
But Charley asserted that there were three levels.
He talked about it to his friends.
One of them was a psychiatrist.
The psychiatrist said that it was nothing but day-dreaming.
He explained that it was only an escape from his present life.
The modern world was full of fear, tension and worries.
The third level provided him an exit from it.
His other friends agreed with the psychiatrist.
They said that his stamp collecting was also a temporary escape.
Charley did not agree with them.
He said that his grandfather started the stamp collection.
And in his grandfather’s days, life was peaceful.
He did not need an escape.
Besides, President Roosevelt also collected stamps.
One day, Charley got late from his office.
He wanted to reach home soon.
So he went to the Grand Central to catch a train.
He walked down to the first level, and then walked down another flight of stairs.
He thought he had reached the second level again.
But he got lost.
He walked down a corridor.
He thought it was wrong.
But he walked on downward.
He walked down a short flight of stairs.
He thought that he had reached the second level again.
But actually he had reached the third level.
The third level was entirely different and old-fashioned.
There were fewer ticket windows.
The information booth was made of wood.
The lights were open flame gas lights.
There were brass spittoons on the floor.
Men had beards and sideburns.
Women wore old-fashioned dresses and high buttoned shoes.
The railway engine was small with a funnel shaped stack.
Everything looked a century old.
He walked to the newsboy.
There he glanced at “The World”.
The lead story was about President Cleveland.
Later Charley found out from the library files that it was printed on June 11, 1894.
Charley wanted to go to Galesburg.
He had been there in his childhood days.
It was a wonderful town with tremendous tress and frame houses.
In 1894, it was a heaven of peace and tranquility.
People lived a carefree life.
So he asked for two tickets to Galesburg.
He paid the fare in modern notes which were different from those in 1894.
The clerk thought the notes were fake and Charley was trying to cheat him.
He threatened to get him arrested.
Charley immediately turned around and fled as fast as he could.
Next day, Charley bought old-style notes from a coin dealer.
He got only two hundred old dollars for three hundred new dollars.
But he could never again find the corridor that led to the third level.
Charley’s wife was worried when she heard that he had bought old-style notes.
So, Charley turned to his stamp collection.
One day, among his grandfather’s collection of first day covers, he discovered an envelope.
The postmark showed that it had been there since July 18, 1894.
He opened the envelope but the paper inside was not blank.
It was a letter from Sam, the psychiatrist friend whom Charley had often told about Galesburg.
He had already gone there.
He urged Charley to continue to look for the third level and join him in the Galesburg of 1894.
It was a wonderful place.
Later Charley learnt that Sam had bought eight hundred dollars’ worth of old currency.
Charley hoped Sam would have set up hay and feed business in Galesburg.
And that was what he had always wished to do.
Aunt Jennifer’s Tigers prance and jump across a screen.
They are bright coloured like the shining yellow topaz.
These denizens’ or the dwellers of the green forests are brought in the panel by Aunt Jennifer.
She creates them through her own hands.
They don’t fear the men standing under the tree.
They pace in ‘sleek’ and ‘chivalric’ certainty.
Aunt Jennifer’s hands are moving about her wool.
But the movement is not smooth and effortless.
Aunt finds it quite hard to pull even the ivory needle.
The heavy weight of the marriage band that bonded her with her husband sits heavily upon her hand.
She still feels tied down by that weight.
Her terrified hands’ will tell the whole story of her unhappy life even when aunt is dead.
Hardships and sufferings were the parts of her married life.
These crushed her.
She was in the grip of very tough life.
But the tigers she has made in the panel will go on jumping ahead, proud and unafraid.
There has been an extension of the shed in front by the occupants of the little old house.
Furthermore, this extension is around the edge of the road where the passage of traffic takes place.
It seems like the shack-owners want to implore the passers-by to purchase something from the shack.
These deprived people have a huge desire for the currency.
Unfortunately, the traffic goes past ignoring the shack.
If by chance the traffic does stop, it would come with a feeling of disappointment.
They are very disturbed to see the poor unattractive signboards.
There is an offer of wild berries shack for sale in a wooden quart (a quarter of a gallon).
This place offers a peaceful natural stay for those who can afford it.
The poet becomes angry at this attitude of the ‘polished traffic’ and asks them to move ahead.
The poet shows more concern for the sadness of the shed-owners than he does for the landscape blemish.
He believes that these people have a longing to handle some city money.
This money can reduce their suffering as one can see in movies.
The political party that enjoys power is the one that deprives them of a happy life.
The poet makes mention of the news which points out the relocation of the poor villagers to the vicinity of shops and theatres.
There were big promises to ensure good care for them.
However, the government authorities became negligent of these promises.
Furthermore, the poet is angry at this behavior and calls them “greedy good-doers”.
He calls them “beasts of prey” who indulge in the exploitation of the poor villagers.
A thing of beauty is a constant source of joy.
Its beauty keeps on increasing.
It never fades.
It will never pass into nothingness.
It provides us a pleasant shelter—a quiet bower for us.
It gives us peace and a sleep full of sweet dreams.
We are bound to the beauties of the earth.
We suffer from malice and disappointment.
We lack good human qualities and noble natures.
We have some sad days also.
All these things make our life gloomy.
We also develop unhealthy and evil ways that cause us suffering and pain.
In spite of all these sufferings, some beautiful things remove the cover of sad feelings from our hearts.
All beautiful things of nature are a boon for humanity.
The sun, the moon, and old and young trees are sources of happiness.
They provide a shady shelter, which is a boon for simple sheep.
Daffodil flowers are blooming among the green surroundings.
Small streams with transparent water make a cooling shelter of thickets to protect themselves from the hot season.
Bushes are growing in the middle of the forest.
They have been made more beautiful and grand by a sprinkling of blooming musk roses.
This magnificence and beauty surpasses grandeur of the dooms that we have imagined for our mighty dead forefathers.
These beauties of nature are lovelier than all lovely tales that we have heard or read.
Nature is an endless fountain.
It pours into our hearts an immortal drink from the heaven’s brink.
The poet wants us to keep still till he counts upto twelve.
For once, let us not talk in any language on this earth.
He asks us to stop moving our arms so much for one second.
Let there be no rush or hurry for a second.
Engines and other machines must stop for a moment.
That moment will be a fascinating moment for all of us.
Then all of us shall enjoy the sudden strangeness of the moment together.
The poet wants that the fishermen would not harm the whales in the cold sea of polar regions.
Even the man gathering salt with his own hands must take care of his hurt hands.
All kinds of wars must be stopped at once.
The green wars against the environment, wars with poisonous gases and wars with fire-arms must be stopped now.
In such wars, victory is meaningless as there are no survivors left after the war.
Instead of fighting and waging wars, people should come out in their best dresses.
They must go out for a walk with their brothers.
They must move about under the shady trees and enjoy doing nothing.
The poet does not want that we should confuse ‘stillness’ with ‘total inactivity.
Doing nothing at all would amount to death.
The poet has no association with death.
We think that life is to move about.
We should not be always on the move.
For a while we should also take rest.
A long silence can do us a lot of good.
Men become sad when they fail to understand themselves.
They feel helpless when they threaten themselves with death.
A long silence can soothe our feelings and help us in removing this sadness.
The poet gives an example to illustrate the idea that ‘stillness’ does not mean total inactivity’.
The earth can teach us a lesson.
When everything seems dead, the earth remains alive.
The poet asks us to keep quiet till he counts twelve.
Then he will go.
Franz started for school very late that morning.
He was afraid of being scolded because M. Hamel was to question them on participles, and he did not know the first word about them.
He thought of running away and spending the day out of doors.
The warm bright day, the chirping birds, and the Prussian soldiers drilling in the open field back of the sawmill were tempting.
But he resisted the temptation and hurried off to school.
There was a crowd in front of the bulletin-board near the town-hall.
Wachter, the blacksmith asked Franz not to go so fast.
He assured the boy that he would get to his school in plenty of time.
Usually there was a great bustle when the school began but that day everything was as quiet as Sunday morning.
Through the window Franz saw his classmates, already in their places and M. Hamel walking up and down with his terrible iron ruler under his arm.
Franz opened the door and went in.
He blushed and was frightened.
M. Hamel very kindly asked him to go to his place.
Franz noticed that their teacher had put on his beautiful green coat, his frilled shirt, and the little black silk cap, all embroidered.
He wore these only on inspection and prize days.
The village people were sitting quietly on the usually empty back benches.
Everybody looked sad; and Hauser had brought an old primer.
M. Hamel said that it was the last lesson he would give them.
Henceforth, only German was to be taught in the schools of Alsace and Lorraine.
The new master would come the next day.
This was their last lesson of French.
He wanted them to be very attentive.
Franz felt sorry that he had not learnt his lessons properly.
The idea that M. Hamel was going away made the narrator forget all about his ruler and how cranky he was.
Now Franz understood why M. Hamel had put on his fine Sunday clothes and why the old men of the village were sitting there.
They had come to thank the master for his forty years’ faithful service and to show their respect for the country that was theirs no more.
M. Hamel asked Franz to recite, but he stood there silent.
The teacher did not scold him.
He confessed that his parents and he (the teacher) were at fault.
Then he talked of the French language-the most beautiful language in the world—the clearest, the most logical.
He asked them to guard it among them and never forget it.
Their language was the key to their prison.
Then they had lesson in grammar and writing.
The pigeons cooed very low on the roof.
Franz thought if they would make even the pigeons sing in German.
All the while M. Hamel was sitting motionless in his chair and gazing at one thing or the other.
His sister was packing their trunks in the room above as they had to leave the country next day.
After writing, they had a lesson in history, and then the babies chanted their ba, be, bi, bo, bu.
Even old Hauser was crying.
All at once the church-clock struck twelve and then the midday prayers.
At the same moment the trumpets of the Prussians, returning from drill, sounded under the windows.
M. Hamel stood up.
He wanted to speak but something choked him.
Then he took a piece of chalk and wrote on the blackboard as large as he could “Vive La France!” After this he stopped and leaned his head against the wall.
Without a word, he made a gesture with his hand to indicate that the school was dismissed and they might go.
He is trying to sponge gold in the heaps of garbage in the neighbourhood.
The author asks Saheb why he does that.
Saheb mutters that he has nothing else to do.
There is no school in his neighbourhood.
He is poor and works barefooted.
There are 10,000 other shoeless rag-pickers like Saheb.
They live in Seemapuri, on the outer edge of Delhi, in structures of mud, with roofs of tin and tarpaulin but devoid of sewage, drainage or running water.
They are squatters who came from Bangladesh back in 1971.
They have lived here for more than thirty years without identity cards or permit.
They have right to vote.
With ration cards they get grains.
Food is more important for survival than identity.
Wherever they find food, they pitch their tents that become transit homes.
Children grow up in them, and become partners in survival.
In Seemapuri survival means rag-picking.
Through the years rag-picking has acquired the proportions of a fine art.
Garbage to them is gold.
It is their daily bread and a roof over their heads.
Sometimes Saheb finds a rupee or even a ten-rupee note in the garbage-heap.
Then there is hope of finding more.
Garbage has a meaning different from what it means to their parents.
For children it is wrapped in wonder, for the elders it is a means of survival.
One winter morning the author finds Saheb standing by the fenced gate of a neighbourhood club.
He is watching two youngmen playing tennis.
They are dressed in white.
Saheb likes the game but he is content to watch it standing behind the fence.
Saheb is wearing discarded tennis shoes that look strange over his discoloured shirt and shorts.
For one who has walked barefoot, even shoes with a hole is a dream come true.
But tennis is out of his reach.
This morning Saheb is on his way to the milk booth.
In his hand is a steel canister.
He works in a tea stall.
He is paid 800 rupees and all his meals.
Saheb is no longer his master.
His face has lost the carefree look.
He doesn’t seem happy working at the tea-stall.
II.
I Want to Drive a Car The author comes across Mukesh in Firozabad.
His family is engaged in bangle making, but Mukesh insists on being his own master.
“I will be a motor mechanic,” he announces.
“I will learn to drive a car,” he says.
Firozabad is famous for its bangles.
Every other family in Firozabad is engaged in making bangles.
Families have spent generations working around furnaces, welding glass, making bangles for women.
None of them know that it is illegal for children like Mukesh to work in the glass furnaces with high temperatures, in dingy cells without air and light.
They slog their daylight hours, often losing the brightness of their eyes.
If the law is enforced, it could get Mukesh and 20,000 children out of the hot furnaces.
They walk down stinking lanes choked with garbage, past homes that remain hovels with crumbling walls, wobbly doors and no windows.
Humans and animals, co-exist there.
They enter a half-built shack.
One part of it is thatched with dead grass.
A frail young woman is cooking evening meal over a firewood stove.
She is the wife of Mukesh’s elder brother and already in charge of three men-her husband, Mukesh and their father.
The father is a poor bangle maker.
Despite long years of hard labour, first as a tailor and then as a bangle maker, he has failed to renovate a house and send his two sons to school.
All he has managed to do is teach them what he knows: the art of making bangles.
Mukesh’s grandmother has watched her own husband go blind with the dust from polishing the glass of bangles.
She says that it is his destiny.
She implies that god-given lineage can never be broken.
They have been born in the caste of bangle makers and have seen nothing but bangles of various colours.
Boys and girls sit with fathers and mothers welding pieces of coloured glass into circles of bangles.
They work in dark hutments, next to lines of flames of flickering oil lamps.
Their eyes are more adjusted to the dark than to the light outside.
They often end up losing their eyesight before they become adults.
Savita, a young girl in a drab pink dress, sits along side an elderly woman.
She is soldering pieces of glass.
Her hands move mechanically like the tongs of a machine.
Perhaps she does not know the sanctity of the bangles she helps make.
The old woman beside her has not enjoyed even one full meal in her entire life time.
Her husband is an old man with flowing beard.
He knows nothing except bangles.
He has made a house for the family to live in.
He has a roof over his head.
Little has moved with time in Firozabad.
Families do not have enough to eat.
They do not have money to do anything except carry on the business of making bangles.
The youngmen echo the lament of their elders.
They have fallen into the vicious circle of middlemen who trapped their fathers and forefathers.
Years of mind-numbing toil have killed all initiative and the ability to dream.
They are unwilling to get organised into a cooperative.
They fear that they will be hauled up by the police, beaten and dragged to jail for doing something illegal.
There is no leader among them.
No one helps them to see things differently.
All of them appear tired.
They talk of poverty, apathy, greed and injustice.
Two distinct worlds are visibleone, families caught in poverty and burdened with the stigma of caste in which they are born; the other, a vicious circle of money-lenders, the middlemen, the policemen, the keepers of law and politicians.
Together they have imposed the baggage on the child that he cannot put it down.
He accepts it as naturally as his father.
To do anything else would mean to dare.
And daring is not part of his growing up.
The author is cheered when she senses a flash of it in Mukesh who wants to be a motor mechanic.
William 0.
Douglas recalls a misadventure of childhood.
It had happened when he was ten or eleven years old.
He had decided to learn to swim.
There was a pool at the Y.M.C.A.
in Yakima, which was safe.
It was only two or three feet deep at the shallow end and nine feet deep at the other.
The drop was gradual.
He got a pair of water wings and went to the pool.
He hated to walk naked into water and show his very thin legs.
The author had developed an aversion to the water when he was three or four.
His father had taken him to the beach in California.
They stood together on the surf.
The waves knocked him down and swept over him.
He was buried under water.
His breath was gone.
He was frightened.
His father laughed, but the overpowering force of the waves filled terror in the young author’s heart.
Unpleasant memories were revived when he went to the Y.M.C.A.
pool for the first time.
Childish fears were stirred.
But soon he gathered confidence.
He watched other boys paddling on water with their water wings.
He tried to learn by imitating them.
He did this two or three times on different days.
He was just beginning to feel comfortable in the water when the misadventure happened.
When he went to the pool, there was no one else.
So he sat on the side of the pool to wait for others.
Shortly afterwards a big boy, a boxer, came.
He was probably eighteen years old and had beautiful muscles on his legs and arms.
He called the author ‘Skinny and asked how he would like to be plunged in water.
The boxer boy picked Douglas and threw him into the deep end.
He struck water in a sitting position.
He swallowed water and at once went to the bottom.
He was frightened, but did not lose his wits.
He made a plan.
He would make a big jump when his feet hit the bottom.
He would come to the surface like a cork, lie flat on it and then paddle to the edge of the pool.
Those nine feet appeared more than ninety.
Before he touched bottom his lungs were ready to burst.
When his feet hit the bottom, he made a great jump upwards, but he failed to reach the surface at once.
He came up slowly.
His eyes and nose came out of water, but not his mouth.
He moved around his legs on the surface of water.
He swallowed water and choked.
He tried to bring his legs up, but they hung as dead weights.
He again went down to the bottom of the pool.
He was shrieking under water because terror had seized him.
He was paralysed under water, but his heart and the pounding in head told him that he was still alive.
When he hit the bottom, he jumped with his full might.
The jump made no difference.
The water was still around him.
His arms and legs wouldn’t move.
He trembled with fear.
He tried to call for help, to call mother, but nothing happened.
Then he rose up.
His eyes and nose were almost out of water.
He sucked for air and got water.
He started going down a third time.
Then all efforts ended and he relaxed.
A blackness swept over his brain and wiped out terror.
There was no more panic.
He felt drowsy and wanted to sleep.
He gave up all attempts.
He forgot everything.
When he came to his senses, he found himself lying on his stomach beside the pool vomiting.
The boy who had thrown him in said, “I was only fooling.” Someone said that the kid had nearly died.
Then they took him to the locker room.
He walked home after several hours.
He was weak and trembling.
He shook and cried when he lay on his bed.
He couldn’t eat that night.
For days a haunting fear was in his heart.
He never went back to the pool.
He feared water and avoided it whenever he could.
A few years later, he came to know the waters of the Cascades.
He wanted to get into them.
Whenever he did so, the terror that had seized him in the pool, returned.
His legs would become paralysed.
An icy horror would grab his heart.
This handicap remained with him even as time passed.
Wherever he went, the haunting fear of water followed him.
It ruined his fishing trips.
It deprived him of the joy of canoeing, boating, and swimming.
He used every method he knew to overcome his fear.
Finally, he decided to get an instructor and learn to swim.
He went to a pool and practised five days a week, an hour each day.
The instructor put a belt around him.
A rope attached to the belt went through a pulley on an overhead cable.
He held on to the end of the rope.
They went on this way for many weeks.
On each trip across the pool a bit of panic seized him.
Each time the instructor relaxed his hold on the rope and the author went under water, some of the old terror returned and his legs froze.
It was three months before the tension began to slack.
Then the instructor taught him to put his face under water and exhale, and to raise his nose and inhale.
He repeated the exercise hundreds of time.
Very slowly, he shed some of the old panic as his head went under water.
Then the instructor held him at the side of the pool and had him kick with his legs.
He did so for weeks.
Gradually his legs relaxed.
Thus, piece by piece, he built a swimmer.
When he had perfected each piece, he put them together into an integrated whole.
He had started practising in October and in April the trainer told him that he could swim.
He asked the author to dive off and swim the length of the pool.
He began with crawl stroke.
When he swam alone in the pool tiny remnants of the old terror would return.
But now he could rebuke his terror.
This went on till July.
He was still not satisfied.
So he went to Lake Wentworth in New Hampshire.
There he dived off a dock at Triggs Island.
He swam two miles across the lake to Stamp Act Island.
He swam the crawl, breast stroke, side stroke and back stroke.
The terror returned only once.
When he was in the middle of the lake, he put his face under and saw nothing but bottomless water.
He asked terror what it could do to him and it fled away.
Some doubts still remained.
So he went up the Tieton to Conrad Meadows, up the Conrad Trail to Meade Glacier.
He camped in the high meadow by the side of Warm Lake.
Next morning, he dived into the lake and swam across to the other shore and back.
He shouted with joy, and Gilbert Peak returned the echo.
He had conquered his fear of water.
The experience had a deeper meaning for him.
Only those who have known stark terror and conquered it can appreciate it.
In death there is peace.
There is terror only in the fear of death.
Roosevelt knew it.
He said, “All we have to fear is fear itself.” Douglas had experienced both the sensation of dying and the terror that fear of it can produce.
The will to live somehow grew in intensity.
At last Douglas felt liberated.
He was free to walk the trails and climb the peaks and to ignore (dismiss) fear.
Once there was a man who went around selling small rattraps of wire.
He made them himself but his business was not profitable.
So, he had to beg and steal a bit to keep himself alive.
His clothes were in rags, his cheeks were sunken and hunger could be noticed in his eyes.
His life was sad and monotonous.
He had no company.
One day, he was struck by an idea that the whole world was nothing but a big rattrap.
It set baits for people by offering riches and joys, shelter and food, heat and clothing exactly as the rattrap offered cheese and pork.
As soon as anyone let himself be tempted to touch the bait, the rattrap closed in on him, and then everything came to an end.
One dark evening he was walking slowly with heavy steps when he saw a little gray cottage by the roadside.
He knocked at the door to ask shelter for the night.
The owner was an old man.
He had no wife or child.
He was happy to get someone to talk to in his loneliness.
He served him porridge for supper and gave him tobacco for his pipe.
Then he got out an old pack of cards and played “mjölis” with his guest till bed time.
The host had been a crofter at Ramsjö Ironworks in his days of prosperity.
He had worked on the land.
Now he was unable to do day labour.
It was his cow that supported him.
This extraordinary cow could give milk for the creamery everyday.
He informed the stranger that last month he had received all of thirty kronor in payment.
The crofter showed his guest three wrinkled tenkronor bills, which he had taken out of a leather pouch hanging on a nail in the window frame.
The next day both men got up early.
The crofter was in a hurry to milk his cow.
The other man did not want to stay in bed when his host had got up.
They left the cottage at the same time.
The crofter locked the door and put the key in his pocket.
The man with the rattraps said goodbye and thanked his host and went away.
Half an hour later the rattrap peddler returned.
He broke a window pane, stuck in his hand, and got hold of the pouch with the thirty kronor.
He took out the money and thrust it into his pocket.
Then he hung the leather pouch very carefully back in its place and went away.
He felt pleased with his smartness.
Then he realised that he dared not continue on the public highway.
So, he took to the woods.
He got into a big and confusing forest.
He kept on walking without coming to the end of the forest.
He realised that he had only been walking around in the same part of the forest.
He thought that he had let himself be fooled by a bait and had been caught.
The whole forest seemed to him like an impenetrable prison from which he could never escape.
It was late in December.
Darkness increased the danger as also his gloom and despair.
He sank down on the ground as he was quite tired.
He heard the sound of hammer strokes.
He summoned all his strength, got up and staggered in the direction of the sound.
He reached a forge where the master smith and his helper sat near the furnace waiting for the pig iron to be ready to put on the anvil.
There were many sounds—big bellows groaned, burning coal cracked, the fire boy shovelled charcoal with a great deal of clatter, the waterfall roared, a sharp north wind whipped the rain against the brick-tiled roof.
On account of all these noises the blacksmith did not notice that a man had opened the gate and entered the forge until the stranger stood close up to the furnace.
The blacksmiths glanced only casually and indifferently at the intruder with a long beard, dirty, ragged and with a bunch of rattraps dangling on his chest.
The peddler asked for permission to stay.
The master blacksmith nodded a haughty consent without saying a word.
Just then the ironmaster who owned the Ramsjo iron mill came into the forge on one of his nightly rounds of inspection.
The ironmaster saw that a person in dirty torn clothes had moved so close to the furnace that steam was rising from his wet rags.
He walked close up to him, looked him over very carefully.
Then he tore off his hat, which had a wide flexible brim, to get a better view of his face.
He called him ‘Nils Olof and wondered how he looked.
The man with the rattraps had never before seen the ironmaster at Ramsjo and did not even know what his name was.
He thought that the ironmaster might perhaps throw his old acquaintance a couple to kronor.
So, he did not tell him that he was mistaken.
The ironmaster observed that he should not have resigned from the regiment.
Then he asked the stranger to come home with him.
The tramp did not agree.
He thought of the thirty kronor.
Going up to the manor house would be like throwing himself into the lion’s den.
The ironmaster assumed that he felt embarrassed because of his miserable clothing.
He said that his wife, Elizabeth was dead, his boys were abroad and only his oldest daughter was with him.
He invited the stranger to spend Christmas with them.
The stranger said “no” thrice.
The ironmaster told Stjernstrom, the blacksmith that Captain von Stahle preferred to stay with him that night.
He laughed to himself and went away.
Half an hour later, the sound of carriage wheels was heard outside the forge.
The ironmaster’s daughter came there, followed by a valet, carrying a big fur coat.
She introduced herself as Edla Willmansson.
She noticed that the man was afraid.
She thought that either he had stolen something or else he had escaped from jail.
She, however assured him that he would be allowed to leave them just as freely as he had come.
She addressed him as captain and requested him to stay with them over Christmas Eve.
She said this in such a friendly manner that the rattrap peddler agreed to go with her.
The fur coat was thrown over his rags and he followed the young lady to the carriage.
On the way the peddler thought why he had taken that fellow’s money.
He was sitting in the trap and would never get out of it.
The next day was Christmas Eve.
The ironmaster came into the dining room for breakfast.
He thought of his old regimental comrade whom he had met so unexpectedly.
He felt satisfied and talked of feeding him well and giving him some honourable job.
His daughter remarked that last night she did not notice anything about him to show that he had once been an educated man.
The ironmaster asked her to have patience and let him get clean and dressed up.
Then she would see something different.
The tramp manners would fall away from him with the tramp clothes.
Just then the stranger entered in a good-looking suit of clothes, a white shirt with a starched collar and whole shoes.
Although he was well groomed, the ironmaster did not seem pleased.
He realised that he had made a mistake last night.
Now in broad daylight, it was impossible to mistake him for an old acquaintance.
The stranger made no attempt to dissemble.
He explained that it was not his fault.
He had never pretended to be anything but a poor trader.
He had requested the Ironmaster to let him stay in the forge.
He was ready to put on his rags and go away.
The ironmaster thought that it was not honest on the part of the man and wanted to call the sheriff.
The tramp then told the ironmaster that the whole world was nothing but a big rattrap.
All the good things that were offered to him were nothing but cheese rinds and bits of pork, set out to drag a poor fellow into trouble.
The sheriff may lock him up for this.
He warned the Ironmaster that a day might come when he might want to get a big piece of pork, and then he would get caught in the trap.
The ironmaster began to laugh.
He dropped the idea of informing the sheriff.
However, he asked the tramp to leave and opened the door.
Just then his daughter entered and asked her.
father what he was doing.
That morning she was quite happy.
She wanted to make things for the wretch quite homelike.
So, she spoke in favour of the vagabond.
She wanted him to enjoy a day of peace with them—just one in the whole year.
She knew that there was a mistake but they should not chase away a human being whom they had asked to come there and promised Christmas cheer.
The ironmaster hoped that she wouldn’t have to regret that.
The young girl led the stranger upto table and asked him to sit and eat.
The man did not say a word but helped himself to the food.
He looked at the girl and wondered why she had intervened for him.
Christmas Eve passed at Ramsjo just as it always had.
The stranger did not cause any trouble because he did nothing but sleep.
They woke him up that he could have his meals.
In the evening, the Christmas tree was lighted.
Two hours later he was around once again to eat the Christmas fish and porridge.
After getting up from the table he went around and said thank you’ and good night’ to everyone present.
The girl told him that the suit he wore was to be a Christmas present and he did not have to return it.
If he wanted to spend the next Christmas Eve in peace, he would be welcomed back again.
The man with the rattraps did not answer.
He only stared at the young girl in limitless amazement.
The next morning the ironmaster and his daughter got up early and went to Christmas service.
They drove back at about ten o’clock.
The young girl sat, and hung her head even more dejectedly than usual.
At church she had learnt that an old crofter of the iron works had been robbed by a man who went around selling rattraps.
The ironmaster feared that the man might have stolen many silver spoons from the cupboard.
As the wagon stopped at the front steps, the ironmaster asked the valet about the stranger.
The valet told him that the stranger had left.
He had not taken anything with him at all, but he had left a package for Miss Willmansson as a Christmas present.
On opening the package, she gave a little cry of joy.
She found a small rattrap, and in it lay three wrinkled ten kronor notes.
There was also a letter addressed to her.
He did not want her to be embarrassed by a thief but act as a captain.
He requested her to return the money to the old man on the roadside, who had money pouch hanging on the window frame as a bait for the poor wanderers.
The rattrap was a Christmas present from a rat who would have been caught in this world’s rattrap if he had not been raised to captain, because in that way he got power to clear himself.
In December 1916 Gandhi went to Lucknow to attend the annual convention of the Indian National Congress.
There were 2,301 delegates and many visitors.
A peasant from Champaran, Rajkumar Shukla, asked Gandhi to visit his district.
Shukla followed Gandhi, wherever he went.
In 1917, Gandhi and Shukla boarded a train for Patna.
Shukla led Gandhi to the house of a lawyer named Rajendra Prasad.
They could not see him as he was out of town.
Gandhi decided to go first to Muzaffarpur to obtain complete information about the conditions in Champaran.
He reached Muzaffarpur by train at midnight on 15 April 1917.
Professor J.B. Kriplani, received him at the station.
Gandhi stayed there for two days.
The news of Gandhi’s arrival and the nature of his mission spread quickly through Muzaffarpur and to Champaran.
Sharecroppers from Champaran began arriving there.
Muzaffarpur lawyers briefed Gandhi about the court cases.
He chided the lawyers for collecting big fees from the sharecroppers.
He thought that lawcourts were useless for the crushed and fear-stricken peasants.
The real relief for them was to be free from fear.
Then Gandhi arrived in Champaran.
He began by trying to get the facts from the secretary of the British landlords’ association.
He refused to give information to an outsider.
Gandhi said that he was not an outsider.
Next, Gandhi called on the British official commissioner of the Tirhut division.
The commissioner started bullying Gandhi and advised him to leave Tirhut.
Instead of leaving the area, Gandhi went to Motihari, the Capital of Champaran.
Several lawyers accompanied him.
A large crowd of people greeted Gandhi at the railway station.
It was the beginning of their liberation from fear of the British.
A peasant had been maltreated in a nearby village.
The next morning Gandhi started out on the back of an elephant.
Soon he was stopped by the police superintendent’s messenger and ordered to return to town in his carriage.
Gandhi complied.
The messenger drove Gandhi home.
Then he served him with an official notice to quit Champaran at once.
Gandhi signed the receipt for the notice and wrote on it that he would disobey the order.
Gandhi received a summons to appear in court the next day.
At night Gandhi telegraphed Rajendra Prasad, sent instructions to the ashram and wired a full report to the Viceroy.
Thousands of peasants gathered around the court house.
The officials felt powerless.
The authorities wished to consult their superiors.
Gandhi protested against the delay.
The magistrate announced that he would pronounce sentence after a two-hour recess.
He asked Gandhi to furnish bail for those 120 minutes.
Gandhi refused.
The judge released him without bail.
The court started again after a break.
The judge said he would not deliver the judgement for several days.
He allowed Gandhi to remain at liberty.
Gandhi asked the prominent lawyers about the injustice to the sharecroppers.
They consulted among themselves.
Then they told Gandhi that they were ready to follow him into jail.
Gandhi then divided the group into pairs and fixed the order in which each pair was to court arrest.
After several days, Gandhi was informed by the magistrate that the case had been dropped.
For the first time in modern India, civil disobedience had triumphed.
Gandhi and lawyers conducted an inquiry into the complaints of the peasants.
About ten thousand peasants deposed.
Documents were collected.
Gandhi was summoned by Sir Edward Gait, the Lieutenant-Governor.
He met the Lieutenant Governor four times.
An official commission of inquiry was appointed.
Gandhi remained in Champaran initially for seven months and then came for several shorter visits.
The official inquiry assembled evidence against the big planters.
They agreed in principle to make refunds to the peasants.
Gandhi asked only 50 per cent.
The representative of the planters offered to refund up to 25 per cent.
Gandhi agreed.
The deadlock was broken.
Gandhi explained that the amount of the refund was less important than the fact that the landlords had been forced to give some money and their prestige.
The peasant now saw that he had rights and defenders.
He learned courage.
Events justified Gandhi’s position.
Within a few years the British planters abandoned their estates.
These now went back to the peasants.
Indigo sharecropping disappeared.
Gandhi wanted to do something to remove the cultural and social backwardness in Champaran villages.
He appealed for teachers.
Two young disciples of Gandhi, Mahadev Desai and Narhari Parikh, and their wives volunteered for work.
Several more came from Bombay, Poona and other distant parts of the land.
Devdas, Gandhi’s youngest son, arrived from the ashram and so did Mrs. Gandhi.
Primary schools were opened in six villages.
Kasturba taught the ashram rules on personal cleanliness and community sanitation.
Health conditions were miserable.
Gandhi got a doctor to volunteer his services for six months.
Three medicines were available : castor oil, quinine and sulphur ointment.
Gandhi noticed the filthy state of women’s clothes.
One woman told Kasturba that she had only one sari.
During his long stay in Champaran, Gandhi kept a long distance watch on the ashram and sent regular instructions by mail.
The Champaran episode was a turning point in Gandhi’s life.
It did not begin as an act of defiance.
It grew out of an attempt to lessen the sufferings of the poor peasants.
Gandhi’s politics was closely connected with the practical day to day problems of the millions.
He tried to mould a new free Indian who could stand on his own feet and thus make India free.
Gandhi also taught his followers a lesson in self-reliance.
Gandhi’s lawyer friends thought that it would be a good idea for Charles Freer Andrews, the English pacifist, to stay in Champaran and help them.
Andrews was willing if Gandhi agreed.
But Gandhi opposed it forcefully.
He said, “The cause is just and you must rely upon yourselves to win the battle.”
Thus, self-reliance, Indian independence and help to sharecroppers were all bound together.
In this lesson, Asokamitran talks about Gemini Studios and all that helps in keeping it in the spotlight.
He starts by making a mention about ‘Pancakes’, the famous make-up brand which Gemini Studios ordered in truckloads.
He then talks about the plight of actors and actresses who have to bear too many lights on their face while getting ready in the make-up room.
The make-up department, according to him, used heaps of make-up to turn them into ugly-looking creatures.
Shockingly, he talks about the office boy of the make-up department whose task is to slap paint onto the faces of players at the time of crowd-shooting.
He was a poet and had joined the Studio in the hope of becoming an actor, screenwriter, director or a lyricst.
In those days, the author used to work inside a cubicle and had the task of collecting newspaper cuttings which, according to others was insignificant.
Thus, office boy would come in time again, to bother him with his complaints.
He was well-convinced that the reason behind his misery was Subbu.
He thought Subbu had an advantage because he was born a Brahmin.
Subbu was a resourceful man whose loyalty made him stand out.
He was tailor-made for films and it was difficult to imagine film-making without him.
He was very welcoming and was known for his hospitality.
Just like many others at the Gemini Studios, he also did poetry.
He worked for the story department which also consisted of a lawyer.
People generally called him the opposite of a legal practitioner.
He was a logical and neutral man amidst a room full of dreamers.
Asokamitran then describes how Gemini Studios got a chance to host a group of international performers called Moral Rearmament Army.
Though the plots and messages were not complex, their sets and costumes were near to perfection so much so that for many years, Tamil plays displayed sunset and sunrise in a way inherited from ‘Jotham Valley’.
Then another guest, Stephen Spender comes to visit Gemini Studios.
People had hardly heard of him and they couldn’t even connect with him due to linguistic barriers.
It was not until a few years later that Asokamitran saw his name in a book and realised who he actually was.
The lesson begins with the introduction to interview as a commonplace of journalism since its invention, which was a little over 130 years ago.
According to the author, it is not very surprising that people have very distinct opinions about the usage of interview.
Some think of it in its highest form whereas some people can’t stand being interviewed.
An interview leaves a lasting impression and according to an old saying, when perceptions are made about a certain person, the original identity of his soul gets stolen.
Famous celebrities, writers and artists have been heard criticising interviews.
Rudyard Kipling’s wife wrote in her diary how their day in Boston was ruined by two reporters.
Kipling considers interviewing an assault, a crime that should attract punishment.
He believes that a respectable man would never ask or give an interview.
There is an excerpt from the interview between Mukund (from The Hindu newspaper) and Umberto Eco, a professor at the University of Bologna in Italy who had already acquired a formidable reputation as a scholar for his ideas on semiotics (the study of signs), literary interpretation, and medieval aesthetics before he turned to writing fiction.
The interview revolves around the success of his novel, The Name of the Rose whose more than ten million copies were sold in the market.
The interviewer begins by asking him how Umberto manages to do so many different things to which he replies by saying that he is doing the same thing.
He further justifies and mentions that his books about children talk about peace and non-violence which in the end, reflect his interest in philosophy.
Umberto identifies himself as an academic scholar who attends academic conferences during the week and writes novels on Sundays.
It doesn’t bother him that he is identified by others as a novelist and not a scholar, because he knows that it is difficult to reach millions of people with scholarly work.
He believes there are empty spaces in one’s life, just like there are empty spaces in atoms and the Universe.
He calls them interstices and most of his productive work is done during that time.
Talking about his novel, he mentions that it is not an easy-read.
It has a detective aspect to it along with metaphysics, theology and medieval history.
Also, he believes that had the novel been written ten years earlier or later, it would have not seen such a huge success.
Thus, the reason for its success still remains a mystery.
Sophie and Jansie, two school girls, were coming home from school.
Sophie declared that she was going to have a boutique.
Jansie looked doubtful as something like that took money.
Sophie said that she would find it.
Jansie observed that it would take a long time to save that much.
Sophie said she would be a manager till then.
Jansie pointed out that they would not make her manager straight off.
However, Sophie persisted in her fantasising.
She said that she would be like Mary Quant.
She would have the most amazing shop in that city.
Jansie knew that they were both earmarked for the biscuit factory.
She became melancholy and wished Sophie wouldn’t say those things.
She told Sophie to be sensible.
They didn’t pay well for shop work.
Moreover, her dad would never allow it.
Sophie changed track.
She said that she would become an actress.
There was real money in that field.
She could also have boutique as side business as actresses did not work full time.
Alternatively, she would become a fashion designer-something a bit sophisticated.
“If ever I come into money I’ll buy a boutique,” she said, entering the house.
Little Derek, who was hanging on to the back of his father’s chair, remarked, “She thinks money grows on trees, don’t she, Dad?” Their mother sighed.
Sophie watched her back stooped over the sink.
The small room was steamy from the stove and cluttered with the heavy-breathing man in his vest at the table and the dirty washing piled up in the corner.
Sophie felt a tightening in her throat.
She went to look for her brother Geoff.
Geoff was three years out of school.
He was an apprentice mechanic.
He travelled to his work each day to the far side of the city.
He was kneeling on the floor in the next room and tinkering with a part of his motor cycle.
Geoff was almost grown up now.
She suspected areas of his life about which she knew nothing, about which he never spoke.
He seemed to be away somewhere, in those places she had never seen.
These places attained a special fascination simply because they were unknown to her and remained out of her reach.
She wished she could be admitted more deeply into her brother’s affections and that someday he might take her with him.
She knew that Geoff thought her too young but she felt impatient.
Sophie told Geoff that she had met Danny Casey in the Arcade.
Geoff did not believe her and asked if she had told Dad.
Geoff asked her how Casey looked like.
She said that he had green, gentle eyes but he was not very tall.
Geoff told his father that Sophie had met Danny Casey.
Sophie wriggled.
Her father looked at her with disdain.
He considered Casey too young for the first team.
Sophie then said that Danny Casey told her that he was going to buy a shop.
Her father dismissed it as another of her wild stories.
He did not believe her yarn.
He warned her that she was going to talk herself into a load of trouble someday.
In Geoff’s room Sophie looked at the large poster of United’s first team squad.
It had a row of coloured photographs beneath.
Three of them were of the young Irish prodigy, Casey.
Sophie asked Geoff to promise he would not tell anyone about her meeting Casey and asking him for autograph for Derek.
Since neither of them had any paper or a pen, he asked her to come to meet him next week.
She promised to do so.
Geoff said that it was the most unlikely thing he had ever heard.
On Saturday, they went to watch United.
Their team won two-nil and Casey drove in the second goal.
Sophie glowed with pride.
Geoff was ecstatic.
Next week Jansie asked Sophie what she had been talking about meeting Danny Casey.
She promised to keep it a secret.
Sophie said that her father would quarrel with her if he heard about it.
Sophie realised that Geoff had not told her about the date.
After dark she walked by the canal.
She sat down on a wooden bench beneath a solitary elm to wait.
For sometime, she imagined his coming.
Some more time passed.
She began to think that Danny might not come.
She felt sad.
Others would doubt her.
Geoff would be disappointed.
She climbed the steps to the street.
Outside the pub, she noticed her father’s bicycle propped against the wall.
She was glad he would not be there when she got home.
Coming through the arcade she pictured Danny Casey again outside Royce’s.
She saw his gentle, gazelle like eyes.
She kept waiting in the arcade alone for a long time remembering the soft melodious voice, the shimmer of green eyes.
Then Sophie remembered another vision.
Last Saturday she had seen Casey moving past the defenders without making a sound and kicking the ball into the goal.
She remembered the thunderous applause made by fifty thousand supporters.
The poet was driving from her parent’s home to the Cochin airport last Friday morning.
Her mother was sitting beside her.
She was sixty six years old.
The old lady was dozing.
Her mouth remained open.
Her face looked pale and faded.
It was grey like ash.
It looked lifeless like a corpse (dead body).
The lifeless and faded face of her mother pained her heart.
The old lady seemed to be lost in her own thoughts.
The poet turned away her attention from her mother and looked outside.
The world outside was full of life and activity.
The young trees seemed running fast.
The children looked happy while moving out of their homes.
When they were at the airport, they had to undergo a security check.
The poet was standing a few yards away from her mother.
She looked again at her old mother.
She felt pained to look at the colourless, lifeless and pale face of her mother.
Her face looked faded like the late winter’s moon which had lost its shine and strength.
This aroused the old familiar ache in the poet’s heart.
Her childhood fear overpowered her again.
However, she controlled herself.
She appeared to be normal.
She scattered smiles on her face while saying good bye to her mother.
She wished to see her old Amma again.
This story revolves around two poor Armenian boys Mourad and Aram.
They are members of the Garoghlanian family.
The hallmarks of their tribe are trust and honesty.
The story begins in a mood of nostalgia.
Aram, the narrator was then a boy of nine and his cousin, Mourad, a more adventurous but slightly crazy fellow, was thirteen.
The narrator remembers vividly the day when Mourad came to his house at four in the morning and woke him up by tapping on the window of his room.
Aram jumped out of bed and when he looked out of the window, he couldn’t believe what he saw.
His cousin Mourad was sitting on a beautiful white horse.
Mourad asked him to be quick if he wanted to ride.
The narrator had a longing to ride, but his whole Garoghlanian family was poor though well-known for their trust and honesty.
The narrator knew that his cousin Mourad couldn’t have bought the horse, and if he couldn’t have bought it, he must have stolen it.
The narrator refused to believe he had stolen it because no member of the Garoghlanian family could be a thief.
The narrator, Aram, asked Mourad where he had stolen that horse.
Mourad did not reply but asked him to leap out of the window if he wanted to ride.
He knew that Mourad was crazy regarding horses.
Stealing a horse for a ride was not the same thing as stealing money or selling a stolen horse.
The narrator leaped into his clothes.
He jumped down to the yard from the window and leaped up onto the horse behind his cousin Mourad.
From their house in Walnut Avenue, they reached Olive Avenue in less than three minutes.
The horse began to trot as the air was fresh and lovely to breathe.
Mourad was considered one of the craziest members of their family.
He begin to sing or rather roar.
They reached the open country and let the horse run as long as it felt like running.
At last Mourad asked Aram to get down as he wanted to ride alone.
Aram asked him if he would let him ride alone.
Mourad replied that it was up to the horse.
The narrator got down and his cousin Mourad kicked his heels into the horse and shouted, “Vazire, run!” The horse stood on its hind legs, snorted and ran forward at a fast speed.
Mourad raced the horse across a field of dry grass to an irrigation ditch.
He crossed the ditch on the horse, and five minutes later returned.
He was dripping wet.
The sun was coming up.
Now the narrator leaped to the back of the horse, but the horse did not move.
At the suggestion of Mourad, he kicked into the muscles of the horse.
It reared, snorted and began to run.
The narrator didn’t know what to do.
Instead of running across the field to the irrigation ditch the horse ran down the road to the vineyard of Dikran Halabian and leaped over seven vines before Aram fell.
Mourad came running down the road.
He was more worried about the horse than Aram.
Both of them searched the horse in different directions.
It took Mourad half an hour to find the horse and bring him back.
Mourad hid the horse in a deserted vineyard belonging to farmer Fetvajian.
There were some oats and dry alfalfa in the barn.
It occurred to narrator that Mourad had been taking early rides for some time and had come to him that morning only.
He enquired, “How long ago did you steal the horse?” Mourad did not like the question.
The narrator rephrased it: “How long did you begin riding every morning?” He replied, “Not until this morning”.
He was, obviously, not speaking the truth, but he convinced Aram by saying so.
Mourad then told Aram that it wasn’t easy to get the horse to behave so nicely.
At first, it wanted to run wild but since he had a way with a horse he developed an understanding with the horse.
The narrator reached home and ate a hearty breakfast.
That afternoon his uncle Khosrove came to their house for coffee and cigarettes.
While he was sipping coffee and smoking in the parlour, another visitor arrived.
The latter was a farmer named John Byro.
He was an Assyrian who, out of loneliness, had learned to speak Armenian.
He was also served coffee and tobacco.
Sighing sadly, he said that his white horse which had been stolen last month was still gone.
Uncle Khosrove became irritated and snubbed him for crying over a horse.
Farmer John Byro was large man with a gentle heart.
He had to walk ten miles to reach there and his left leg pained him.
The horse had cost him sixty dollars and his surrey was no good without a horse.
As soon as the farmer went away, Aram ran over to his cousin Mourad’s house and told him everything.
He asked Mourad not to return it till he learnt to ride.
He suggested keeping it for a year or at least six months.
Mourad thought he was inviting a Garoghlanian to steal.
He decided to return the horse to its true owner.
Early every morning for two weeks Mourad and Aram took the horse out of the barn of the deserted vineyard where they were hiding it and rode it.
Every morning, the horse would leap over grape vines and small trees and throw Aram and run away.
Still Aram hoped to learn to ride as Mourad rode.
One morning on the way to Fetvajian’s deserted vineyard they came across farmer John Byro who was on his way to town.
Mourad greeted him.
The farmer studied the horse eagerly and wished them good morning.
He asked the name of their horse.
Mourad replied that they called it My Heart’.
John Byro called it a lovely name for a lovely horse.
He was certain that it was the horse which had been stolen from him many weeks ago.
He asked if he might look into the horse’s mouth.
On examining the teeth of the horse, the farmer was ready to swear that it was his own horse.
But since the fame of their family for honesty was well-known, he would not call it the stolen horse.
Still it was the twin of his horse.
Early the next morning, the boys took the horse to John Byro’s vineyard and put it in the barn.
Mourad put his arms around the horse, pressed his nose into the horse’s nose, patted it and then they went away.
That afternoon John Byro came to their house in his surrey and showed the narrator’s mother the horse that had been stolen and returned.
He was surprised to find the horse stronger than ever and better tempered too.
He thanked God.
Uncle Khosrove, who was in the parlour, became irritated and shouted at him to be quiet.
He observed that his horse had been returned and repeated his pet phrase: “Pay no attention to it”.
This is a moving story of a daughter who goes in search of her mother’s belongings after the War, in Holland.
The narrator is the daughter of Mrs S., who died during the war.
The narrator went to number 46, Marconi Street to see Mrs Dorling who was an old acquaintance of her mother, and who had removed almost all the belongings of her mother during the war to this place.
All this was done with Mrs S’s silent consent as Mrs Dorling wanted to save her things, which they would lose if they had to leave the place.
The narrator had seen Mrs Dorling for the first time during the first half of the war.
She had come home for a few days and noticed the change in the rooms.
She missed various things.
Her mother informed her that Mrs Dorling had moved these things to safety and gave her the address 46, Marconi Street.
After the war, the narrator visited the address her mother had given her.
She remembered Mrs Dorling clearly.
She was woman with a broad back.
Mrs Dorling looked at the narrator searchingly and showed no sign of recognition.
She kept staring in silence.
She saw that the narrator, who had recognised her mother’s green knitted cardigan, was looking at it.
She half hid herself behind the door and refused to see her.
She was surprised to see the narrator who had survived from the war.
The narrator returned to the station and boarded the train.
While in train she remembered the first time she had seen Mrs Dorling and how her mother had introduced her to her old acquaintance and given the address.
After the first fruitless visit to Mrs Dorling’s house, the narrator visited the place a second time.
This time, a girl of about fifteen opened the door to her.
She asked the girl if her mother was at home.
Since she was away, the narrator decided to wait for her.
She followed the girl along the passage.
The first thing that struck her was an old-fashioned iron Hanukkah candle-holder hung next to a mirror.
Then they went into the living room.
The narrator was horrified as she was in a room she knew and did not know.
She found herself in the midst of things she had so wanted to see again, but which oppressed her in the strange atmosphere.
The tasteless way of arrangement, ugly furniture and the muggy smell all contributed to arouse this feeling.
She didn’t have the courage to look around her.
She sat down and stared at the woollen table-cloth.
As she followed the lines of the pattern, she remembered that it was their table-cloth, which had a burn mark that had never been repaired.
Soon she found the hole.
The girl poured her tea from a white pot which had a gold border on the lid.
She opened the box and took out some spoons.
The narrator praised the box.
Mrs Dorling’s daughter said that it was an antique.
They had got lots more and she pointed round the room.
The narrator knew very well which things she meant.
She remarked that the cutlery-spoons, forks and knives was silver.
The girl laughed.
She walked to the side board and wanted to open a drawer.
The narrator fell perturbed.
The objects linked with her mother, aroused memories of her former life.
At first she was eager to see them, but now they had lost their value since they were severed from her mother and were stored in strange surroundings.
Moreover, they were useless to her in her present state.
She lived in a small rented room with space for no more than a handful of cutlery fitted in the narrow table drawer.
She resolved to forget the address.
She wanted to leave the memories of her mother and the war behind her and decided to move on.
‘Mother’s Day’is a hilarious drawing room comedy by J.B. Priestley.
It raises a serious issue and deals with it in a humorous manner.
The comic undertone, however, does not belittle the importance of the issues raised in the play.
The play centres round Mrs Annie Pearson, a devoted wife and doting mother.
She is a pleasant but worried looking woman in her forties.
Her neighbour, Mrs Fitzgerald, is a fortune teller.
She tells Mrs Pearson to make up her mind and assert herself if she wants to be the mistress of her own house and the boss of her own family.
At present Mrs Pearson is reduced to the status of an unpaid domestic servant who does all the domestic chores without even being requested for them or thanked later on.
She is taken for granted and ordered about.
Mrs Fitzgerald tells her that husbands, sons and daughters should take notice of wives and mothers, not giving them orders and treating like dirt.
Mrs Pearson endures the ill-treatment because she is very fond of her husband and children though they are quite thoughtless and selfish.
She tries her best to have it out with them but does not know how to begin.
She wants to get tea things ready as the members of her family are about to drop in.
Mrs Fitzgerald asks her to let them wait or look after themselves for once.
Since Mrs Pearson is too soft towards her family, Mrs Fitzgerald offers a way out.
She suggests a change of personalities for a short duration.
Mrs Pearson is doubtful about the success of the plan, but yields.
With the help of magic spell learnt in the East, Mrs Fitzgerald carries out an interchange of personalities.
Now Mrs Pearson having the personality of her neighbour, becomes bold and dominating and Mrs Fitzgerald is nervous and fluttering.
Doris Pearson, a pretty girl in her early twenties is the first to face the cool and incisive mother.
As usual, Doris, the spoilt girl, asks her mother about her yellow silk dress.
Mrs Pearson keeps on smoking.
Doris is astounded.
However, she asks if they are having tea in the kitchen.
Mrs Pearson tells her politely to have it wherever she likes.
Doris angrily asks her if it isn’t ready.
Mrs Pearson tells her that she has had what she wanted.
She surprises her with the remark that she might go out later and get a square meal at the Clarendon.
When Doris angrily asks her mother again whether she has ironed her yellow silk dress, Mrs Pearson tells her that she puts in twice the hours she does and gets no wages or thanks for it.
She criticizes her boyfriend Charlie Spence for having buckteeth and being halfwitted.
She tells Doris frankly that at her age she would have found somebody better than Charlie Spence.
Now it is the turn of Cyril Pearson, the spoilt brat, who asks for tea as soon as he enters.
Since he has got a busy night that night, he asks his mother if she has put his things out.
He reminds her of her promise.
She tells him that she doesn’t like mending.
He objects to her talking like that.
Mrs Pearson gives him a bit of her mind.
She tells him that they all do talk like that.
If there’s something at home he doesn’t want to do, he doesn’t do it.
If it is something at his work place, he gets the union to bar it.
She says that she has also joined the movement.
She then asks if they have any stout left.
She goes to the kitchen to bring a hottle, as she wants to drink.
Cyril and Doris go into a huddle and whisper about the behaviour of their mother.
Doris states that she could not believe her eyes as she found her mother smoking and playing cards when she came in.
Cyril had asked her if she was feeling off-colour and she said she wasn’t.
Doris observes that she is suddenly all different.
She made her cry not aly by what she said but by the way she said it and looked.
Doris thinks that she has a concussiun as a result of falling.
Cyril asks if she has become slightly crazy.
Meanwhile Mrs Pearson comes back.
She is carr ing a bottle of stout and half-filled glass.
Cyril and Doris try to stop their guffawing and giggling.
Irs Pearson regards them with contempt and asks them to behave according to their age.
She finds nothing funny in their jokes.
Doris is tearful again.
She wants to know what they have done.
Mrs Pearson at once tells them that they have done nothing.
They simply come in, ask for something, go out again and then come back when there’s nowhere else to go.
Cyril tells her aggressively that he’ll find something to eat himself if she won’t get tea ready.
Mrs Pearson tells him to help himself.
When Cyril and Doris say that they have been working all day.
Mrs Pearson says that she has also done her eight hours.
She further says that now it will be forty-hour week for all and she will have har two days off at the weekend.
George Pearson, a solemn, self-important and pompous looking man about fifty unters.
He notices Doris in tears and then his wife sipping stout.
He is bewildered at her behaviour.
He informs her that he won’t have any tea as there is a special snooker match at night the club and a bit of supper.
Mrs Pearson informs him that there isn’t any tea.
He is surprised at her answer.
She tells him that people laugh at him at the club and call him Pompy-Ompy Pearson because he is slow and pompous.
George is horrified.
She wants to know why he wants to spend so much time at a place where t’ey are always laughing at him behind his back and calling his name.
He leaves his wife alone at home each night.
George is dazed and asks Cyril for confirmation.
He staggers as Cyril confirms it.
Cyril tells his mother that it is not fair of her to hurt his or his father’s feelings.
Mrs Pearson remarks that sometimes it does people good to have their feelings hurt.
The truth oughtn’t to hurt anybody for long.
If he didn’t go to the club so often, perhaps people would stop laughing at him.
Cyril doubts it.
His mother tells him that he knows nothing.
He spends a lot of time and money at grey hound races, dirt tracks and ice shows.
Mrs Fitzgerald is at the door.
Cyril calls her ‘silly old bag’.
Mrs Pearson tells him to ask her in and address her properly Mrs Fitzgerald is shocked to see how Mrs Pearson is treating her husband and children.
George re-enters and sits aside in arm chair smoking his pipe.
Mrs Pearson takes George to task for being impolite.
George flares up as she rebukes him in the presence of their neighbour.
He asks her if she has gone mad.
Mrs Pearson threatens to slap his face if he says that again.
George is intimated.
She mockingly asks him to leave for the club.
All this is too much for Mrs Fitzgerald (with Mrs Pearson’s personality) to bear.
She requests Mrs Fitzgerald for a reversal to the original state.
With the chanting of the magic spell, they regain their original personalities.
As a parting advice, Mrs Fitzgerald asks Mrs Pearson to be a bit strict with her looks and tone sometimes to suggest that she might be tough with them if she wanted to.
This formula will work.
Mrs Pearson says that she wants them to stop at home sometimes, give her a hand with supper and play a nice game of rummy.
Mrs Fitzgerald is about to leave.
She is glad to see Mrs Pearson handling her family firmly.
The trick works and all the members of the family agree to do whatever she says.
The lesson opens on a note where the author’s friend Shahid who has a malignant tumour wants him to write about him after his last breath and how the author resists it.
This is because of his lack of ability to respond in a situation like this.
Shahid knew him well and thus, he made him agree on this.
The author tells us how he made notes of every encounter and telephone conversation with Shahid after that day to be able to write about him.
Now, the author’s fascination with his friend dates back to a time when they were not friends.
Amitav knew Shahid for his work in poetry.
It was only through a friend that they met but remained only acquaintances.
A year later when Shahid moved to Brooklyn, they got closer upon frequent brunches.
It was after a sudden temporary lapse of memory, that Shahid moved from Manhattan to live with his sister.
The author mentions one such day when he went along with Shahid’s siblings to pick him up from the hospital after a surgery.
Shahid refused to take the help of a wheelchair claiming that he is still fit to trust his toes.
Upon seeing him lose his balance, they called the escort back with the wheelchair.
Shahid, being full of life, got excited upon knowing that the guy knows Spanish as he had always wanted to learn the language.
Shahid and the author had a great deal in common.
To quote a few, they had common love for Indian dishes like rogan josh and a shared indifference towards cricket.
Despite knowing where his disease was going to take him, Shahid always surrounded himself with people which according to him gave him no time to be sad.
There used to be a party in his living room almost daily with a person or two in the kitchen cooking his favourite rogan josh while he gave direction amidst his partying.
He talked endlessly about his favourite Ghazal singer and her stories of witty replies.
Once at Barcelona airport, he too replied wittily to the security guard and made a mention about it in his poetry.
The author then talks about how the prevailing situations in Kashmir affected him.
He wrote a lot of poetry about Kashmir and thought that politics and religion should act separately.
He felt that people must stay united despite religion.
He gave the credit of this way of thinking to his upbringing.
The author mentions how he wished to be in Kashmir while taking his last breath but could not due to logistical issues.
He took his last breath in his sleep leaving a void in the author’s life.
The author is left thinking how a bond of such short duration can have such a lasting impact.
It was nearly midnight when Andrew Manson, the young doctor reached Bryngower.
He found driller Joe Morgan waiting anxiously for him.
Joe told Andrew that his wife, Susan, wanted his help and that too before time.
Andrew went into his house, took his bag and left with Joe for number 12 Blaina Terrace.
Joe’s voice showed signs of strain as he told the doctor that he would not go in.
He reposed full faith in Andrew.
A narrow stair led up to a small bedroom.
He found two women beside the patient.
One was Mrs Morgan’s mother.
She was a tall, grey-haired woman of nearly seventy.
The other was a stout, elderly midwife.
The old woman offered to make a cup of tea for the doctor.
The experienced woman had realized that there must be a period of waiting.
Andrew drank tea in the kitchen downstairs.
He knew he could not snatch even an hour’s sleep if he went home.
He also knew that the case would demand all his attention.
Although he was very worried and upset, he decided to remain there until everything was over.
An hour later he went upstairs again.
He noted the progress made, came down once more and sat by the kitchen fire.
The old woman sat opposite him.
His thought were filled with Christine, the girl he loved.
He stared broodingly, into the fire and remained like this for quite long.
He was startled when the old woman suddenly asked him not to give her daughter the chloroform.
She feared that it would harm the baby.
The doctor replied that the anaesthetic would not do any harm.
An hour passed.
It was now dawn when the child was born, lifeless.
As he gazed at the still form, a shiver of horror passed over Andrew.
His face, heated with his own exertions, chilled suddenly.
He was torn between his desire to attempt to make the child start breathing again, and his obligation towards the mother.
She was in a desperate state.
The dilemma was quite urgent.
Instinctively, he gave the child to the nurse.
He turned his attention to Susan Morgan.
She lay collapsed on her side, almost pulseless and not let out of the effect of medicine to make her unconscious.
Her strength was ebbing.
He smashed a glass ampoule and injected the medicine.
Then he worked severely to restore the soft and weak woman.
After a few minutes of quick efforts, her heart strengthened.
He saw that he might safely leave her.
Then he asked the midwife about the child.
She made a frightened gesture.
She had placed it beneath the bed.
Andrew knelt down and pulled out the child.
It was a perfectly formed boy.
Its limp, warm body was white and soft as tallow.
The head lolled on the thin neck.
The limbs seemed boneless.
The cord, hastily slashed, lay like a broken stem.
The whiteness meant only one thing-unconsciousness caused by lack of oxygen.
His mind raced back to a case he had once seen in the Samaritan.
He remembered the treatment that had been used.
He instantly asked the nurse to get him hot water and cold water and basins.
Then he snatched a blanket.
He laid the child on it and began the special method of respiration.
As soon as the basins arrived, he poured cold water into one basin and hot in the other.
Then he hurried the child between the two.
Fifteen minutes passed.
Sweat ran into Andrew’s eyes.
His breath came pantingly, but no breath came from the lax body of the child.
A desperate sense of defeat pressed on him.
It was a quickly spreading hopelessness.
The midwife and the old woman were watching him.
He remembered the old woman’s longing for a grandchild which had been as great as her daughter’s longing for this child.
All this seemed broken and useless now.
The midwife remarked that it was a stillborn child.
Andrew did not pay any attention to her.
He had laboured in vain for half an hour.
He still persisted in one last effort.
He rubbed the child with a rough towel.
He went on crushing and releasing the little chest with both his hands.
He was trying to get breath into that limp body.
At last, the small chest gave a short, convulsive heave.
Then another and another.
Andrew redoubled his efforts.
The child was gasping now.
A bubble of mucus came from one tiny nostril.
The limbs were no longer boneless.
The pale skin slowly turned pink.
Then came the child’s cry.
Andrew handed the child to the nurse.
He felt weak and dazed.
The room lay in a shuddering litter.
He wrung out his sleeve and pulled on his jacket.
He went downstairs through the kitchen into the scullery.
His lips were dry.
He took a long drink of water.
Then he reached for his hat and coat.
It was now five o’clock.
He met Joe and told him that both were all right.
Andrew kept thinking that he had done something real at last.
Once there was a just and gentle king who ruled over a country.
The king announced publicly that a curved structure should be built which should extend across the major public road in a victorious manner to benefit the beholders spiritually.
Obeying the king’s orders, the workmen went there and built the arch.
The king rode down the thoroughfare to enlighten the spectators.
Since the arch was built too low, the king lost his crown under the arch.
The eyebrows of the gentle king were knit in displeasure.
He called it a disgrace and declared that the chief of builders would be hanged.
The rope and gallows were arranged and the chief of builders was led out.
As he passed the king, he shouted, “O king, it was the workmen’s fault.” The king stopped the proceedings and Ordered that all the workmen be hanged instead.
The workmen looked surprised and said to the king that he had not realized that the bricks were made of the wrong size.
The king ordered that the masons be called there.
The masons were brought there.
They stood trembling with fear.
They now blamed the architect.
The architect was called.
The king ordered that the architect was to be hanged.
The architect reminded the king that he had made certain improvements in the plans when he showed them to the king.
On hearing this, the king became very angry and was unable to act calmly.
Being a just and gentle king, he observed that it was a very difficult business and he needed some advice.
He ordered that the wisest man in the country be brought there.
The wisest man was found and brought to the Royal Court.
He was so old that he could not walk or see.
So he had to be carried there.
He said in a trembling voice that the culprit must be punished.
It was the arch that had hit the crown off, so it must be hanged.
The arch was then taken to the scaffold.
Then a councillor observed how they could hang something that had touched the head of the king.
The king thought carefully and said it was true.
However, by now the crowd became restless and was muttering aloud.
The king noticed their mood and trembled.
He asked the people who had assembled there to postpone deliberation over finer points like guilt.
Since the nation wants a hanging, someone must be hanged and that too immediately.
The noose was setup somewhat high.
Each man was measured by and by.
Only one man was tall enough to fit it.
That man was the king.
So he was hanged by the Royal ordinance.
The ministers felt satisfied that they had found someone to be hanged.
Otherwise the unruly town might have rebelled against the king.
They shouted “Long live the king!”

Since the king was dead, the practical minded ministers sent messengers to declare in the name of His (former) Majesty that the next to pass the City Gate would choose the ruler of their state.
It was their custom and it wound be observed with proper respect.
An idiot passed by the City Gate.
The guards asked him to decide: “Who is to be the King?” The idiot replied “a melon” because it was his standard answer to all questions.
The ministers crowned a melon as their king.
Then they led (carried) the Melon to the throne and set it down there with proper respect.
When asked how their king happenes to be a melon, the people would reply that it was on account of customary choice.
If the king felt happy in being a melon, it was all right for them.
They would not question him taking any shape as long as he left them in peace and liberty and allowed them to carry on their private business without government control.
The photograph pasted on the cardboard shows two girl cousins Betty and Dolly who went paddling in the sea with the poetess mother.
Each of them was holding one of the hands of the poet’s mother, who was a big girl of some twelve year or so at that time.
Her uncle had a camera.
All three stood still facing the camera.
They pushed their hair aside to smile.
Thus the photograph presents three smiling faces.
The face of the poet’s mother is a sweet one.
It was of a time before she was born.
Their feet, which were being washed by sea water for a very short time, have been photographed along with the sea, which appears to have changed less.
The poet thus indirectly hints that her mother’s face has changed over the years.
After a lapse of time, say some twenty or thirty years later, the poet’s mother would laugh at the snapshot.
She would refer to the photograph and recollect how her cousins Betty and Dolly had dressed themselves for the beach when they went on a sea holiday.
She laughs as she sees the scanty dress.
This sea holiday was an event of her past.
Her laughter is real and pleasant for the poet.
It is a precious memory for her.
Both—her holiday and her laughter are amusing in an ironic way as they are linked with her loss which requires a forced state of freedom from pain.
Now the poet’s mother is dead for nearly as many years as that girl in the picture lived.
The poet feels at a loss of words to comment on this event–her death.
It is a solemn moment and its silence makes her silent.
Thus the poetess pays a tribute to her mother.
It is the old photograph that moves her to silence.
This poem highlights a universal problem—the generation gap and the lack of communication between father and son.
The poem begins with a father’s lament that he does not understand his child though they have been living together in the same house for so many years.
He confesses that he knows nothing of him.
In order to understand him, he tries to build up a relationship from what he knows about him when he was small.
However, the thread connecting the two is missing.
He seems to have missed the link somewhere.
Either he has destroyed this seed or misplaced it somewhere in an area which does not belong to him.
The result is loss of affinity and closeness.
They speak like strangers and there is no sign of understanding between them.
The lack of communication between father and son highlights the growing chasm between the two generations.
The father admits that the child’s physical shape is according to his own desires but their interests differ.
He cannot share what the son loves.
The lack of common interests results in lack of communication.
The son is busy in searching new avenues for himself and moving away to his own world.
The father wishes that his son might return to him as the proverbial prodigal son.
He would prefer his return to the place he is so familiar with rather than risk adventure to unknown and unfamiliar lands.
Like the father in the old story about the prodigal son, he would also forgive his son.
He hoped to build a new love from the sorrow of losing material wealth as a result of his son’s ventures.
A realization dawns on the father at last.
He and his son must live on the same earth and on the part of land.
Now when the son speaks, the father fails to understand it.
It seems as if he cannot understand himself as the son is the image of father himself.
The grief of separation causes anger.
They make no special effort to make up the loss.
The hand they extend is empty.
However, there is a strong desire for something to help him in forgiving and forgetting the bitterness.
The poet asked the soft falling shower who it was.
Strangely enough, the shower gave him an answer.
The voice of the rain told him that it was the poem of earth.
It is everlasting and perpetual.
It is something that cannot be touched.
It is born out of the land and the deep sea.
It rises upward to heaven.
There it gets a different form and is altogether changed.
Yet it remains the same.
Then it comes down to wash the dry/thirsty tiny particles and dust layers of the world.
The rain helps the seeds which lie hidden and unborn under the layer of earth to take a new life.
This process of rain is perpetual and goes on by day and night.
Rain gives back life to its own source of beginning, makes it pure and beautiful.
The rain sings a song.
This song issues from its birth place.
It keeps wandering here and there whether it is paid heed to or not.
After accomplishment, the song returns properly with love.
The poet seems puzzled about the loss of childhood.
It is natural in the process of growing up.
Still, the poet tries to find an answer to his two queries: When did my childhood go?’ and Where did my childhood go?”

The first possibility of the time of departure of his childhood relates to the age when he had completed the age of eleven.
It was then that he developed a power of understanding.
Then he became aware that Hell and Heaven could not be found in Geography.
Since they could not be located anywhere in world, he concluded that they did not exist.
He thus reached a logical conclusion based on his reasoning power.
The second possibility relates to the time when he realized the hypocrisy of the adults.
They were not all that they seemed to be.
They talked of love and gave advice of love, but did not act so affectionately.
The third possibility relates to the time when he found that he was the master of his mind.
He could use it whichever way he chose.
He could now produce his own thoughts and need not repeat those of others.
A sense of individuality dawned on him.
He wonders whether he lost his childhood on one of these days.
In the final stanza, the poet dwells on the problem where his childhood has disappeared.
On the basis of his limited knowledge he thinks that his childhood went to some forgotten place that was hidden in an infant’s face.
The poet implies that adolescence follows childhood in the same way as childhood had replaced infancy.
It is a stage in the process of growing up.
During the afternoon of an autumnal September sunlight, the highest part of the Laburnum tree is silent, calm and quiet.
A few of its leaves are turning yellow but all its seeds have fallen.
Suddenly a goldfinch comes at a branch end.
Its sudden chirping sounds break the silence.
Then quite watchfully and smoothly like a lizard, she suddenly enters the middle part of the tree.
Then the tree is filled up with a series of short, quick high pitched chattering sounds, shaking movement of wings and repeated short sounds.
It seems as if a whole machine has started working.
The whole tree shakes slightly and feels excited.
Perhaps the goldfinch has made her nest there and she feeds her young ones.
This engine of her family responds to her call and after stoking it, she moves out in a short time and goes to the branch end where her face remains partly visible—the bars on her face serve as mask for her identity.
Then with mysterious and frightening, light pleasant soft sound of whistling and chirping she shoots forward towards endless heaven.
Once she rises towards God’s abode (the infinite) the laburnum tree becomes calmer or quieter and it seems to be empty.
It is a science fiction.
Gangadharpant was a historian.
He was also known as Professor Gaitonde.
He was travelling by the Jijamata Express.
His mind was moving fast.
He had arrived at a plan of action.
In Bombay, he would go to a big library and look through history books.
He will try to find out how the present state of affairs was reached.
He had also planned to return to Pune and have a long talk with Rajendra Deshpande.
He hoped that Rajendra would surely help him understand what had happened.
At Sarhad station, an anglo-Indian in uniform went through the train, checking their permit.
This indicated the border of the British Raj.
The tiny Union Jack painted on each blue carriage of the Greater Bombay Metropolitan Railway reminded them that they were in British territory.
The imposing building outside Bombay V.T.
(Victoria Terminus) announced its identity as ‘East India House, Headquarters of the East India Company’.
Professor Gaitonde was prepared for many shocks.
But he had not expected this.
The East India Company had been wound up shortly after the events of 1857.
Yet, here it was not only alive but flourishing.
So history had taken a different turn, perhaps before 1857.
He had to find out how and when it had happened.
Ashe walked along Hornby Road, he found a different set of shops and office buildings.
These were as in a typical high street of a town in England.
He turned right along Home Street and entered Forbes building.
He told the English receptionist that he wanted to meet Mr Vinay Gaitonde.
She consulted telephone list, the staff list and directory of employees of all the branches of the firm.
She politely replied that she couldn’t find anyone of the name there or in any other branch.
He thanked the girl politely and came out.
Taking a quick lunch at a restaurant, he went to the library of the Asiatic Society to solve the riddle.
The Town Hall housed the library.
He asked for a list of history books including his own.
While reading the fifth volume of history, Gangadharpant finally came to the moment where history had taken a different turn.
That page in the book described the Battle of Panipat.
It mentioned that the Marathas won it handsomely.
Abdali was defeated and pursued back to Kabul by the Maratha army.
This victory was a great morale booster to the Marathas.
It also established their supremacy in northern India.
East India Company suspended its expansionist programme.
The company’s influence was reduced to small areas of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras.
Vishwasrao and his brother Madhavrao combined political sharpness with bravery and expanded their influence all over India.
They kept the puppet Mughal regime alive in Delhi.
They were clever enough to recognise the importance of science and technology.
The East India Company offered aid and experts.
The twentieth century brought further changes.
Inspired by the West, India moved towards a democracy.
The Peshwas were gradually replaced by democratically elected bodies.
The Shahenshah of Delhi survived this change as he exercised no real influence.
He okayed the recommendations made by the central parliament.
Gaitonde read on and began to appreciate the India he had seen.
It had never been slave to the British.
Gangadharpant could not help comparing the country he knew with what he was witnessing around him.
He felt his investigations were incomplete.
He wanted to know how the Marathas won the battle.
He looked for the accounts of the battle itself.
He came across ‘Bhaushebanchi Bakhar’.
He knew that Bakhars contained detailed but falsified account.
He hoped to see the germ of truth.
He read the three line account of how close Vishwasrao had come to being killed.
As the professor left the table, he shoved some notes into his right pocket.
Absent-mindedly, he also shoved the ‘Bakhar’ in his pocket.
He found a guest house to stay in, took his meals and set out for a stroll to the Azad Maidan.
A lecture was in progress there.
He found the presidential chair unoccupied.
He swiftly moved towards the chair.
The audience asked him to vacate the chair and leave the platform.
Gangadharpant kept talking to the audience.
He had the experience of speaking at 999 meetings.
He became a target for a shower of tomatoes, eggs and other objects.
Finally, the audience swarmed to the stage to eject him.
Gandgadharpant could not be seen anywhere in the crowd.
Two days later Gangadharpant narrated everything to Rajendra Deshpande.
He was back in the world he was familiar with.
He did not know exactly where he had spent two days.
Rajendra asked him what he had been doing just before his collision with the truck.
Professor Gaitonde replied that he was thinking of the catastrophe theory and its implications for history.
Then he produced a page torn out of a book.
It was a page from the Bakhar.
The book was lost in the melee at Azad Maidan.
Rajendra read the page which described how Vishwas Rao narrowly missed that bullet and how that event turned the tide in their favour.
Then Gangadharpant produced his own copy of ‘Bhausahebanchi Bakhar’.
The relevant page described how Vishwasrao was hit by a bullet.
Rajendra tried to rationalise his experience on the basis of two scientific theories known till that day.
One was the catastrophe theory.
The juncture at which Vishwasrao, the son of the Peshwa and heir, was killed proved to be the turning point.
History says that his uncle, Bhausaheb, rushed into the melee and was never seen again.
The blow of losing their leaders was crucial for the troops.
They lost their morale and fighting spirit.
An utter rout followed.
The torn page showed the crucial event gone the other way.
Rajendra said that reality may not be unique.
It has been found from experiments on very small systems of atoms and their particles.
There is lack of determinism in quantum theory.
So there may be many world pictures.
All the alternative worlds could exist just the same, though we know the world which are talking about.
Catastrophic situations offer radically different alternatives for the world to proceed.
So far as reality is concerned all alternatives are viable, but the observer can experience only one of them at a time.
By making a transition, Prof. Gaitonde was able to experience two worlds although one at a time—one he lived in then and the one where he spent two days.
He was experiencing a different world though he was in the present.
Gangadharpant asked why he had made the transition.
Rajendra replied that one needed some interaction to cause a transition.
Perhaps he was thinking about the catastrophic theory and its role in war, or he was wondering about the Battle of Panipat.
Perhaps the neurons in his brain acted as trigger.
Professor Gaitonde admitted that he had been wondering what course history would have taken if the result of the battle had gone the other way.
The narrator and Tsetan took a short cut to get off the Changtang.
This route would take them south-west, almost directly towards Mount Kailash.
It involved crossing fairly high mountain passes.
Tsetan said that there would be no problem if there was no snow.
This short cut took them across vast plains having arid pastures.
They saw a few gazelles and a great herd of wild asses.
As hills came once again, they passed shepherds tending their flocks.
The narrator and Tsetan passed the dark tents of the nomads in lonely places.
A huge black dog, a Tibetan mastiff would stand to guard outside.
These dogs raised their big heads erect and watched the narrator’s car.
As the car came closer they would start barking and ran towards their car.
The dogs would stop barking only after chasing them off the property.
Then they entered a valley.
The snow capped mountains were visible on the horizon.
The river in this valley was wide and mostly blocked with ice.
Gradually they gained height and the valley-sides closed in.
They were climbing up the hill.
The turns became sharper and the ride bumpier.
Tsetan drove in third gear.
The narrator felt the pressure building up in his ears.
He held his nose, snorted and cleaned them.
They were at 5,210 metres above sea level.
Tsetan grabbed handfuls of dirt and flung it across the icy top layer.
Then he drove the car slowly and carefully on the icy surface.
They continued to climb in the bright sunshine.
They crept past 5,400 metres.
The narrator’s head began to throb horribly.
He took gulps from water bottle.
Finally, they reached the top of the pass at 5,515 metres.
The lower atmospheric pressure was allowing the fuel to expand.
It could be dangerous.
So, Tsetan advised them not to smoke.
As they moved down the other side of the pass, the narrator’s headache soon cleared.
It was two o’clock.
They stopped for lunch.
By late afternoon, they had reached the small town of Hor.
They were back on the main east-west highway.
It followed the old trade route from Lhasa to Kashmir.
Daniel got a ride in a truck to return to Lhasa.
Tsetan got the punctured tyres repaired.
The narrator found Hor a grim, miserable place with no vegetation.
They had tea in Hours only cafe.
They left Hor after half an hour.
They drove towards Mount Kailash.
After 10.30 p.m. they drew up outside a guest house in Darchen.
One of the narrator’s nostrils was blocked again.
He was tired, hungry and gasping for breath.
He could feel better when he sat up.
He stayed awake all night.
The following morning Tsetan took him to the Darchen medical college.
The doctor felt the narrator’s pulse and gave him medicines for cold and exhaustion due to altitude.
The narrator slept soundly at night after first full day’s course of medicines.
When he recovered, Tsetan left him as he had to return to Lhasa.
Darchen had some simple general stores selling Chinese cigarettes, soap and supplies of food.
Women washed their long hair in the icy water of a narrow brook near the guest house.
There were no pilgrims.
Darchen had only one cafe.
He met Norbu there.
He was a Tibetan but worked in Beijing at the Chinese Academy of Social Science, in the Institute of Ethnic Literature.
He could speak English.
He too, had come to do the Kora.
Norbu was very fat.
He found it very hard and tiresome to walk or go up.
The narrator decided to make the trek in the company of Norbu, instead of waiting for the devout believers.
They hired yaks to carry their luggage.
Norbu said that he had no intention of prostrating himself all-round the mountain.
It was not possible for him as his tummy was too big.
The Green Movement started nearly twenty-five years ago.
The world’s first nationwide Green party was founded in New Zealand in 1972.
Since then, the movement has not looked back.
In fact, no other movement in world history has excited human race so much as the Green Movement.
For the first time, there is a growing awareness that the earth itself is a living organism.
It has its own metabolic needs and essential processes.
The signs pertaining to the Earth’s life show a patient in declining health.
People have now fully realised their moral duty to be good custodians of the planet and responsible trustees of the legacy to future generations.
The World Commission on Environment and Development popularized the concept of sustainable development in 1987.
It defined the idea as the development that meets the needs of the present with out endangering the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Man is the most dangerous animal in the world.
Now he has realized the wisdom of shifting from a system based on domination to one based on partnership.
Scientists have arranged list of 1.4 million living species on earth besides man.
About three to hundred million other living species still stay unnamed in humiliating darkness.
The Brandt Commission was the first International Commission to deal with the question of ecology and environment.
The first Brandt report raised the question whether we were to leave our successors a dried earth of increasing deserts, poor landscapes and ailing environment.
Mr. Lester R. Brown has listed Earth’s four main biological systems.
These are fisheries, forests, grasslands and croplands.
They form the basis of the world’s economic system.
They supply us food and raw materials for industry.
In large areas of the world, these systems are reaching unsustainable level.
Their productivity is being damaged.
When this happens, fisheries break down, forests disappear, grasslands are changed into barren wastelands and croplands become worse.
Overfishing is common in protein hungry world.
In poor countries, local forest are destroyed to obtain fuel for cooking.
Tropical forests are wearing away at the rate of forty to fifty millions acres a year.
The growing use of dung for burning deprives the soil of an important natural fertiliser.
Over the last four decades ‘India’s forests have reached disastrous exhaustion.
India is losing its forests at the rate of 3.7 million acres a year.
Large areas, officially named forest land, are almost treeless.
A UN study warns that the environment has deteriorated quite badly in many of the eighty-eight countries investigated.
The growth of world population is one of the strongest factors distorting the future of human society.
Mankind reached the first billion mark in more than a million years.
That was the world population in the year 1800.
By the year 1900, a second billion was added.
The twentieth century has added another 3.7 billion.
The present world population is estimated at 5.7 billion.
Every four days the world population increases by one million.
Fertility falls as income rises, education spreads and health improves.
Development is the best contraceptive.
However, development may not be possible if population goes on increasing at this rate.
The population of India is estimated to be 920 million in 1994.
It is more than the entire populations of Africa and South America put together.
Unless population control is given top most priority, the hope of the people would die in their hungry hutments.
There is no alternative to voluntary family planning without an element of coercion.
The choice is really between control of population and continuation of poverty.
We notice a surpassing concern.
People are worried not only about their own survival but that of the planet as well.
People have begun to take an over-all view of the very basis of life.
The environmental problem is our passport for the future.
A new world vision has emerged.
It has ushered in the Era of Responsibility.
It is a holistic view, an ecological view.
We now see the world as an integrated whole rather than separate parts.
Industry has very important role to play in this new Era of Responsibility.
Leading businessmen should excel in environmental performance.
Then they can continue to exist as leading manufacturers.
The words of Margaret Thatcher are used frequently.
She remarked: No generation has a free hold on this earth.
All we have is a life tenancy with a full repairing lease.’Mr.
Lester Brown, the author of ‘The Global Economic Prospecť rightly observes, “We have not inherited this earth from our forefathers, we have borrowed it from our children.”

It was 6 p.m. on January 5, 2005 when the mummy of Tutankhamun moved smoothly and quietly into CT scanner which had been carried to Tut’s resting place.
The aim was to probe the persisting medical mysteries of this young ruler who died more than 3,300 years ago.
His dead body was embalmed and buried in a royal grave in the Valley of the Kings.
Howard Carter, a British archaeologist discovered Tut’s tomb in 1922 after years of futile search.
Its contents remain the richest royal collection ever found.
They include extremely attractive artifacts in gold as well as everyday things like board games, a bronze razor, linen undergarments, cases of food and wine.
Carter first recorded the Pharaoh’s funeral treasures.
Then he began investigating his three nested coffins.
The first one had a shroud covered with garlands of willow and olive trees, wild celery, lotus petals and cornflowers.
These proved that he was buried in March or April.
Carter ran into trouble when he reached the mummy.
The ritual resins had hardened.
These had cemented Tut to the bottom of his solid gold coffin.
The solidified material was removed with the help of chisels.
Then the mummy was cut free.
Carter’s men removed the mummy’s head and severed nearly every major joint.
Once they had finished, they reassembled the remains on a layer of sand in a wooden box with padding that concealed the damage.
The team of scientists found it resting there.
Zahi Hawass, Secretary General of Egypt’s Supreme Council of Antiquities observed that the mummy was in very bad condition because of what Carter had done in the 1920s.
Archaeology has changed a lot during the last few decades.
Now it pays less attention to treasure and more to the fascinating details of life and puzzling mysteries of death.
It uses more sophisticated tools including medical technology.
In 1968 an Anatomy Professor X-rayed the mummy.
He revealed a startling fact.
The breast-bone and front ribs are missing.
Now CT scanning was employed to answer two questions: (i) how did he die?
and (ii) how old was he at the time of his death?
On the night of the scan, workmen carried Tut from the tomb in his box.
They climbed a ramp and a flight of stairs into the swirling sand outside.
Then they rose on a hydraulic lift into a trailer.
This trailer held the scanner.
Initially, there was some problem because of sand in a cooler fan.
Then the technicians scanned the mummy head to toe.
1700 digital X-ray images in cross section were created.
Tut’s head was scanned in 0.62 millimetre slices to register its complicated structures.
Tut’s entire body was sirnilarly recorded.
Then a team of specialists in radiology, forensics and anatomy began to probe the secrets.
A technician displayed astonishing images of Tut on a computer screen.
A gray head took shape from a scattering of pixels.
The technician spanned and tilted it in every direction, Neck vertebrae appeared quite clearly.
Other images revealed a hand, several views of the ribcage, and a narrow cross section of the skull.
Zahi Hawass smiled.
He felt relieved to see that nothing had gone seriously wrong.
Lemuel Gulliver was the third son of a small landowner in Nottingham shire.
He decided to settle down in London to practise medicine.
He was married to Endmon Burton, who brought him a good dowry.
He took up a surgeon’s job at the ship Antelope’ when his medical practice didn’t prove very successful.
The ship sailed from Bristol for the South Sea.
The ship was overtaken by a violent storm and got wrecked.
Many sailors died but Gulliver was able to swim ashore.
When Gulliver woke up, he found himself bound with chains.
A crowd of pigmies surrounded him.
They were just 6 inches in height.
They were shooting arrows that caused Gulliver a lot of pain.
He was taken to the King on a specially made carriage.
The King accompanied by lords of his court came to see Gulliver.
He was nicknamed as the man-mountain’.
The Emperor, the Empress and the young prince and princess looked at Gulliver with surprise and wonder.
The King tried to speak with him but neither of the two could communicate as the one didn’t understand the language of the other.
The King ordered to make elaborate arrangements for Gulliver’s boarding and lodging.
He was thoroughly searched and a list of articles received from him were made.
His watch was an article of great surprise and wonder for people.
Gulliver’s good behaviour won him the favour of the King and the court.
He hoped to be released soon.
He could now understand their language.
Some of the activities of the Lilliputians amused Gulliver.
All the candidates for high offices had to prove their skills in dancing on a tight rope.
Even Flimnap, the Treasurer and the chief ministers had to prove their superiority by dancing on a tight rope.
Another activity to judge the skill and merit of the candidates was leaping over or creeping under a stick which the Emperor held in his hand.
The winners were rewarded.
Gulliver was released on certain conditions framed by Bolgolam, a member of the Imperial Cabinet.
He was very hostile to Gulliver.
Gulliver was to abide by the conditions.
He was also allowed food and drink sufficient for the support of 1728 Lilliputians.
Permission was granted by the King to Gulliver to go around the metropolis Mildendo.
A royal proclamation asked people to keep away from Gulliver’s route to avoid being crushed by the ‘man-mountain’.
The windows and roofs were crowded to see Gulliver.
Gulliver found the metropolis capable of holding five hundred thousand people.
Shops and markets were well stocked.
The Empress smiled graciously to see Gulliver.
She offered her hand through the window and Gulliver kissed it.
Gulliver came to know that the country faced two dangers.
The King belonged to the Little-Endians and the party believed that eggs must be broken at the smaller ends.
The opposite party, the Big-Endians believed in breaking it at the bigger end.
Besides, there was a conflict between those who wore high-heeled shoes and those who wore low-heeled shoes.
The land of Lilliputians had a rival in Blefuscu.
It was the only other great empire in the universe.
The opposition party in Lilliput was in league with the Emperor of Blefuscu, the enemy of Lilliput.
The Emperor of Blefuscu had now assembled a fleet to invade Lilliput.
Gulliver promised his help to the Emperor of Lilliput.
Gulliver waded through six feet deep channel that separated the two kingdoms.
He succeeded in pulling fifty of the enemy’s largest ship to Lilliput.
The Emperor was delighted and conferred on Gulliver the highest title of honour which existed in Lilliput.
Annoyance The Emperor expected Gulliver to destroy the army and the empire of Blefuscu completely.
He wanted to rule over Blefuscu through a Viceroy.
Gulliver was not in favour of causing so much damage to Blefuscu and the Emperor didn’t like it.
He became cool to Gulliver.
When Gulliver expressed his desire to visit Blefuscu, the King only gave a verbal permission.
Another incident annoyed the Empress against Gulliver.
Gulliver extinguished a fire in the apartment of the Empress.
He took the Empress out safely.
Touching the Empress was forbidden by the law.
Hence, the Empress was greatly annoyed.
Against Gulliver Flimnap poisoned the ears of the King that the man-mountain Gulliver consumed so much food and his maintenance was ruining the economy of Lilliput.
He should be dismissed from the country.
One day, a lord from the court informed Gulliver Fliminap and Bolgolam had conspired against him and had prepared articles of impeachment against him.
After receiving confidential information about the conspiracy, Gulliver decided to slip away and take shelter in Blefuscu.
One day he secretly waded through the channel and reached Blefuscu.
He was welcomed by the King and his subjects.
An envoy from Lilliput brought a message to handover Gulliver to them for his trial.
The Emperor ignored the message.
But Gulliver didn’t want to become a bone of contention between Lilliput and Blefuscu.
So he decided to leave Blefuscu for his native land.
Gulliver discovered a boat of normal size that could take Gulliver over the sea.
The Emperor and the Royal family came out to bid Gulliver a farewell.
He presented him a lot of gold and necessary provisions.
Gulliver stuffed the boat with animals and freshwater and set sail for the voyage.
He caught sight of an English ship.
Gulliver came back home and was very happy to meet his wife and children.
After staying with his family for some time, Gulliver commenced his voyage on a merchant ship “Adventure’ on 20th June, 1702.
The ship was bound for Surat.
After facing the rough sea and the storms, the Captain sighted the land.
He sent a few members of the crew, including Gulliver, to look for freshwater on land.
Gulliver ventured alone deep into the island.
When he came back to the shore, he found the boat hurrying away pursued by a man of huge size.
Gulliver hid himself in a field but soon the master of the field detected him.
He picked up Gulliver with his hand and treated him kindly.
Gulliver found himself in Brobdingnag, the land of Giants.
At meals Gulliver saw a dish about twenty-four meter in diameter.
Even the cat seemed three times larger than an ox.
Gulliver saw a mother feeding her breast to a child.
The people of Brobdingnag were not deformed but looked ugly due to their gigantic dimensions.
A visitor suggested the farmer that he could earn a lot of money by exhibiting Gulliver to the people for a little money.
Gulliver was carried in a box on the next market day for public display.
The farmer’s nine-year-old little girl who was 30 feet tall, was fascinated by Gulliver.
She acted as a nurse for him.
The farmer earned a lot of money by those public shows.
He came to the metropolis.
The Queen also saw him and bought Gulliver from the farmer in a thousand pieces of gold.
The nine-year-old girl of the farmer remained with Gulliver as his nurse.
The king wondered how such a small creature as Gulliver could exist on earth.
He sent for three scholars to consult about Gulliver.
They came to a conclusion that Gulliver was ‘ a freak of nature’.
The Queen developed a fascination for Gulliver.
She enjoyed looking at Gulliver while he was having his food.
The Queen kept a dwarf as a pet to her in the palace.
The dwarf was jealous of Gulliver as the Queen became more fond of the newcomer.
The dwarf played many mischiefs.
One day he threw Gulliver into a large bowl of cream.
On another occasion, he shook the branch of an apple tree.
The huge falling apples wounded Gulliver.
The country of Brobdingnag was well inhabited.
It contained 51 cities, a hundred walled towns and a large number of villages.
The metropolis Lorbulgrud was situated in the centre on either side of a river.
There were many mishaps.
One day suddenly there was a shower of hailstones as large as 1800 times than those in Europe.
Gulliver was badly injured.
One day, a dog seized Gulliver within his mouth and ran straight to his master.
Luckily Gulliver was saved.
On another occasion, a kite swooped on him but Gulliver saved himself with his sword.
One day, a monkey carried him off on the top of a building and the King’s men rescued him.
He spent 15 days in bed.
On another day, he was half sunk in cow-dung and waded through it with difficulty.
The King, a learned man, asked many questions about his native country and its government.
Gulliver told that in England the Parliament had two houses-the House of Commons and the House of Lords.
The members were elected on the basis of merit and competence.
There were courts of justice.
The King was not impressed.
To him Gulliver’s country seemed to be “a heap of conspiracies”, rebellious, murders, envy, lust and malice.
He thought his countrymen as the “pernicious race of little odious vermins.” Gulliver thought that the King’s unfavorable outlook was due to his isolation from rest of the world.
He offered to teach them how to manufacture gunpowder.
The King was horrified and didn’t want to produce such weapons of mass destruction.
The King thought that no books were needed to run a government.
Whoever could make two ears of corn or grow two blades of grass upon a piece of ground did more service than all the politicians put together.
Gulliver wanted to leave Brobdingnag as he had already spent two years there.
A strange incident occurred.
Once the King and the Queen had halted in a city closed to the sea.
As usual Gulliver was kept in a travelling box.
An eagle of huge size caught hold of the ring of the box and flew away.
The eagle was soon attacked by other eagles and the box was dropped into the sea.
Luckily, the Captain of a ship sighted Gulliver and lifted him up on the ship.
The Captain agreed to take Gulliver with him to England whither the ship was bound.
When Gulliver was travelling homewards, he was struck by the smallness of the trees, houses, cattle and the people.
It looked as if he was in Lilliput again.
When Gulliver met his wife and children, they appeared to him to be pigmies.
Gulliver hardly stayed with his family for 10 days when he got an offer to work as a surgeon on the ship “Hope-Well”.
At Tonguin, the Captain gave Gulliver a sloop (ship).
It was chased by the pirates.
They set Gulliver adrift in a small boat.
The boat touched an island named Laputa.
Gulliver saw the flying-island about two miles above the island.
It was a scientific wonder.
The island could be raised and lowered as needed.
Gulliver was surrounded by strange people who had their hand reclined either to the right or the left.
One of their eyes turned inward and the other directly up to the sky.
Those strange creatures were followed by their servants known as “flappers’.
Their masters were always lost in intense speculations and thoughts.
Their servants and flappers’ had to strike their master with bladders on the mouths or ears to draw their attention.
Gulliver had to wait for more than an hour to meet the King.
The King asked many questions but they couldn’t communicate with each other because of the language problem.
At dinner table Gulliver noticed that mutton had been cut into an equilateral triangle; the beef into a rhomboid and pudding into a cycloid.
The other articles were given the shapes of musical instruments like a harp, a fiddle and a flute.
Gulliver picked up their language in the course of time.
He learnt that the Flying Island was Laputa.
Music and mathematics were the two general interests of the people and they were hardly concerned with anything else.
They expressed their ideas through lines and figures.
The houses were badly built and the people looked most awkward and clumsy.
These people were always worried.
They had no peace.
They feared that in course of time the earth would be swallowed by the sun or the face of the sun would get dark.
They never cared for their women and they were easily attracted towards strangers.
Although Gulliver was not ill-treated on the island of Laputa, yet he felt neglected and desired to leave.
He was allowed to leave and given costly gifts and a letter of recommendation by the King.
Gulliver was well received in Lagado by Munodi, for whom he had a letter of recommendation.
Munodi had been the governor of Lagado for some years but was removed from the post for “insufficiency’.
However, the King treated him with great respect.
Munodi gave a detailed account of various futile schemes in Balnibarbi.
These schemes were launched by the experts who visited Laputa and imitated their ways and works.
Almost all projects failed as they were not practical.
At the Academy of Projectors, Gulliver found a scientist trying to extract sunbeams from cucumbers.
Another scientist was working-on restoring human excrement to its original food.
The other was trying to calcine ice into gunpowder.
A blind man was mixing colors for painters.
One Projector was trying to obtain silk from cob-webs.
The school of Political projects were doing researches on keeping the legislators mentally fit, preparing medicines to stimulate the memory of the favorites of Kings and on other novel schemes.
Gulliver visited the island of Glubbdubdrib, the island of magicians.
The governor himself was a magician who received Gulliver quite warmly.
On Gulliver’s request, the governor produced the souls of Alexander the great, Homer, Aristotle, Caesar and many others.
They talked to him and he knew that Alexander died of excessive drinking.
The interrogation with the dead souls revealed how prostitutes, pimps, flatterers, cowards, liars ran the governments of many countries.
Gulliver took leave of the Governor and returned to Maldonada where he boarded a ship for Luggnagg.
He was well received by the King.
Gulliver had to lick the dust before meeting the King.
Gulliver enjoyed the hospitality of Luggnagg for three months.
The people were polite and generous.
Gulliver was told that there were immort also in Luggnagg who would never die.
Gulliver was asked what he would do if he had been immortal.
He wished to be very rich man first.
Then he would apply himself to the study of arts and sciences to be a learned man.
And finally, he wanted to record his experiences for the benefit of mankind.
But Gulliver was shocked and surprised that the immortals were the most miserable people on the earth.
They were incapable of friendship and wished and prayed to die soon.
Gulliver sailed from England on 7th September, 1710.
In the course of his new voyage, he was attacked by the members of the crew.
Many of whom had previously been pirates.
They put him down on the sea-coast and sailed away.
After a while, he saw several animals in a field.
They looked strange and deformed.
He was surrounded by them and his life was in danger.
But soon he was saved by a horse.
Those strange creatures ran away at the sight of the horse.
Then came another horse and they greeted each other by striking their right hoof.
Their behavior seemed very orderly and rational.
The horses escorted Gulliver to their abode.
Later on Gulliver came to know that the horses were called the Houyhnhnms.
The strange flesh eating animals were called the “Yahoos’ and they were sub-servient to the horses.
Gradually, Gulliver picked up their language.
Gulliver sailed from England on 7th September, 1710.
In the course of his new voyage, he was attacked by the members of the crew.
Many of whom had previously been pirates.
They put him down on the sea-coast and sailed away.
After a while, he saw several animals in a field.
They looked strange and deformed.
He was surrounded by them and his life was in danger.
But soon he was saved by a horse.
Those strange creatures ran away at the sight of the horse.
Then came another horse and they greeted each other by striking their right hoof.
Their behavior seemed very orderly and rational.
The horses escorted Gulliver to their abode.
Later on Gulliver came to know that the horses were called the Houyhnhnms.
The strange flesh eating animals were called the “Yahoos’ and they were sub-servient to the horses.
Gradually, Gulliver picked up their language.
Gulliver’s capacity for learning and his gentleness and cleanliness, impressed the master of the Houyhnhnms.
They all treated Gulliver as a brute animal but a better animal.
Gulliver found that the Houyhnhnms had no word for “lying or ‘falsehood’.
They had no notion of them.
The word “Houyhnhnm” meant a “horse’.
They represented perfection among animals.
Gulliver gave an account of his country and people.
The master was surprised to know that people in Gulliver’s country wore clothes to hide their nakedness.
Gulliver told that in his country rational human beings like himself ran the government.
The master felt highly insulted to know that “Houyhnhnms (horses) in England were employed as human servants to carry them on their backs.
They were discarded in old age.
They were castrated to be made more gentle and tame.
The master couldn’t believe that the Yahoos (human beings) of Gulliver’s country were gifted with reason.
Gulliver told that he was born in England, an island ruled by the Queen.
He told how many people there were ruined by litigation, drinking, gambling and debauchery.
They were guilty of murder, theft, robbery, forgery, rape, and so on.
The master was surprised to learn that so many vices existed in Gulliver’s country.
He couldn’t understand why the people of Europe fought so many wars in which so many lives were lost.
The master was filled with an abhorrence for the whole human race when he heard about deadly weapons and destruction they caused.
The master formed a somewhat mixed attitude towards Gulliver.
No doubt, he possessed the faculty of reason but he lacked the strength and aagility of a Yahoo.
The master then told about the ways of the Yahoos.
The Yahoos loved shining stones.
They had odious eating habits.
They loved to drink the juice of a certain root and it produced the same effect as liquor produced on the people of Gulliver’s country.
They had many diseases and cured them by taking a mixture of their own dung and urine.
The leader of the Yahoos was a creature more deformed in body and mischievous in nature than all others.
The female Yahoos would often stand behind a bush and lure a male Yahoo.
On such occasions they would give out a most offensive smell.
Gulliver had been rescued by a horse (Houyhnhnms) when a female Yahoo caught him in embrace.
The master formed a somewhat mixed attitude towards Gulliver.
No doubt, he possessed the faculty of reason but he lacked the strength and aagility of a Yahoo.
The master then told about the ways of the Yahoos.
The Yahoos loved shining stones.
They had odious eating habits.
They loved to drink the juice of a certain root and it produced the same effect as liquor produced on the people of Gulliver’s country.
They had many diseases and cured them by taking a mixture of their own dung and urine.
The leader of the Yahoos was a creature more deformed in body and mischievous in nature than all others.
The female Yahoos would often stand behind a bush and lure a male Yahoo.
On such occasions they would give out a most offensive smell.
Gulliver had been rescued by a horse (Houyhnhnms) when a female Yahoo caught him in embrace.
Gulliver was living happily in peace among the Houyhnhnms.
Gulliver was so much impressed by the virtues and wisdom of the Houyhnhnms that he wanted to stay with them.
One day the master sprang a big surprise on Gulliver.
In the last assembly, it was decided that Gulliver was a member of the Yahoo race and must be expelled.
So Gulliver built for himself a kind of canoe and after bidding a touching farewell to his master, sailed away from the shore.
Gulliver was fortunately picked up from his canoe by the sailors of a Portuguese ship.
Gulliver had developed hatred against the race of human beings.
In fact, he didn’t want to return to his own country.
But the Captain was bent upon taking him there.
From Portugal Gulliver boarded an English ship and sailed for England.
He went to his house at Redriff on the same day.
Gulliver’s wife and family received him with great surprise and joy.
But Gulliver was filled with hatred and disgust on seeing them.
When his wife kissed him, he was so horrified that he fainted.
Gulliver started writing an account of his travels.
With the money he was able to save, he bought two horses.
To the very day of his writing,

Lemuel Gulliver was the third of the five sons.
His father was a small land-owner in Nottingham shire.
He was educated at Emanuel College in Cambridge.
Then he served as an apprentice to a well known surgeon in London.
After three years, he was sent to Leyden to study medicine.
He decided to settle down in London and married Edmond Burton who brought him a good dowry.
Gulliver took up a surgeon’s job on a ship as he was not very successful in his medical practice.
The ship Antelope sailed from Bristol on 4th May, 1699 for the South Sea.
The ship was overtaken by a violent storm and got wrecked.
Most of the sailors died in the sea.
Luck favored Gulliver.
He was able to swim ashore.
Being tired and totally exhausted, soon he fell asleep on the sea-shore.
Gulliver Woke up after several hours.
He was amazed to find himself bound with chains.
He was Surrounded by a crowd of human creatures.
They were exceptionally small-only six inches in height.
The strange human creatures were pigmies.
They were shooting arrows from their bows and they caused Gulliver a lot of pain.
He was not released but offered food and drink.
Arrangements were made to take him to their King.
To transport a man of giant size was solved.
He was carried to the metropolis on a huge carriage.
The King himself came out to look at Gulliver.
His huge size caused him a lot of surprise and wonder.
Gulliver was lodged in a deserted ancient temple.
The Emperor came on a horseback to have a good look and talk to Gulliver if possible.
He looked at Gulliver with wonder and admiration.
His huge size impressed him.
The Empress and the young princess sat at a safe distance to view the giant that had come in the land of Lilliputians.
The Emperor and Gulliver made several efforts to talk to each other but neither of them understood the language of the other.
A large crowd had assembled there to see that giant of a man.
Many of them shot arrows and one arrow nearly missed one of his eyes.
Gulliver caught 5 or 6 Lilliputians.
He refrained from crushing them and didn’t punish them.
Gulliver’s kindness and leniency was appreciated by everyone.
The news of Gulliver’s arrival spread throughout the kingdom.
All kinds of people from different villages and towns arrived to see him.
The Emperor had a long consultation with his courtiers.
He decided not to put Gulliver to death.
Elaborate arrangements were made for his boarding and lodging.
Arrangements were made to teach Gulliver the language of the Lilliputians.
Within three months, Gulliver learnt the basics of their language.
Now he could communicate with Emperor and others.
Gulliver was thoroughly searched according to the law of the land.
An inventory (list) was made of all the articles.
Gulliver’s watch caused a lot of surprise and wonder to all who saw it.
Gulliver’s pair of spectacles escaped their notice as they were in a private pocket of his coat.
Gulliver was given the name ‘Quinbus Flestrin’.
It meant “Man-Mountain’.
Gulliver’s gentleness and good behavior won the heart and favor of the Emperor and his courtiers.
He began to think that very soon he would be released from chains and become free.
He had made quite a satisfactory progress in understanding and speaking their language.
The Lilliputians had some very funny habits and practices.
It was quite funny and even strange that the merit or ability of candidates aspiring for high posts were judged by their feat of rope-dancing.
All candidates were asked to dance on a rope.
Only those who jumped very high without falling qualified for high posts at the Imperial Court.
Even Flimnap, the Treasurer and Reldressal, the Principal Secretary for Private Affairs had to show their superiority by dancing on a tight rope.
Sometimes such feats caused fatal accidents.
Another activity which was practiced to judge the merit of the candidates for high offices, was leaping over sticks which the Emperor held in his hands.
The winner was recorded with a blue silken thread.
The next man was rewarded with a red thread and the third with a green one.
Gulliver’s repeated petitions for freedom at last got a favorable response from the Emperor.
He was to be given freedom on certain conditions.
These conditions were framed by a member of the Imperial Cabinet, Bolgolam.
He was very hostile to Gulliver.
Gulliver was to take an oath that he would abide by those conditions.
After his release, Gulliver was allowed a quantity of meat and drink that was sufficient for 1728 Lilliputians.
The Emperor’s mathematicians calculated the amount required for the maintenance of Gulliver’s body also.
Now Gulliver was a free man.
He sought the Emperor’s permission to go around the metropolis, Mildendo.
The permission was granted.
A proclamation was made.
The people were asked to keep away from Gulliver’s route.
They were asked to avoid being crushed by the “man mountain”.
The windows and roofs were crowded with spectators to watch Gulliver walking through the main street.
The town was capable of holding five hundred thousand people.
The people lived in three to five storied houses.
The shops and markets were well stocked.
The Emperor’s palace was situated just in the center of the city.
Gulliver could have a glimpse of the Empress and the young Princes and Princess.
The Empress smiled graciously.
She offered her hand through the window and Gulliver kissed it.
One day, the Principal Secretary of Private Affairs, Reldressel visited Gulliver and told him about the state of affairs prevailing in the land of Lilliputians.
The country was faced with two dangers.
Reldressel disclosed that the country was divided into two parties-the Emperor’s party and the Opposition party.
The Emperor and his party believed in boiled eggs being broken at the smaller end.
The opposite party insisted on breaking the eggs at the big end.
The two parties were known as Big-Endians and Little-Endians.
Similarly, there was a conflict between those who wore high-heeled shoes and those who wore low-heeled shoes.
The only other great empire in the ‘universe’ was the empire of Blefuscu island.
It was a rival of Lilliput and was as large as powerful.
The opposition party in Lilliput was in league with the Emperor of Blefuscu.
The Emperor of Blefuscu had now assembled a huge fleet of ships to invade Lilliput.
Gulliver promised his full support.
Blefuscu and Lilliput were separated by a channel which was 800 yards wide and six feet deep.
Gulliver told the Emperor that he would seize the whole fleet of ships of his enemy.
He took a few cables to which he tied some hooks.
He waded through the channel and succeeded in pulling 50 of the enemy’s largest ships towards Lilliput.
It was a great blow to Blefuscu.
The Emperor of Lilliput was highly delighted.
As a token of gratitude, he conferred on Gulliver the highest title of honour which existed in Lilliput.
The empire of Blefuscu was humbled.
The Emperor of Lilliput now expected Gulliver to demolish and damage the armed forces of Blefuscu completely.
He wanted Blefuscu weakened for ever.
He wanted to rule over Blefuscu through a viceroy.
Gulliver didn’t believe in causing unnecessary bloodshed and damage to the enemy.
He belied the expectations of the Emperor.
So the Emperor became cool towards Gulliver.
A peace treaty was signed between Lilliput and Blefuscu.
Now Gulliver expressed a desire to go and meet the Emperor of Blefuscu.
The Emperor only gave the oral permission.
Soon Flimnap and Bolgolam were able to prejudice the Emperor against Gulliver.
They convinced that his friendliness with Blefuscu would mean Gulliver’s withdrawal of support from Lilliput.
However, Gulliver was able to neutralise the conspiracy by rendering a great service.
He was able to extinguish a fire in the apartment of the Empress.
Sufficient water was not available.
Gulliver had to make water to extinguish it.
The Emperor was happy but the Empress was annoyed.
Gulliver had committed an act which was illegal and could invite the capital punishment.
Animals and trees were exact in proportion to the height of people in Lilliput.
Tallest horses and oxen were between four and five inches in height.
They buried their dead with their heads downward.
They believed that they would rise from their graves after eleven thousand moons.
All the crimes against the state in Lilliput were punished with utmost severity.
Fraud was considered to be a bigger crime than theft and was punishable with death.
Those who proved by obeying the laws of the country for 73 moons, could claim special rights and cash awards.
High morals were preferred to abilities in the appointments for high offices.
Those who didn’t believe in the Divine Providence were denied government posts.
But certain corruptions had taken root in Lilliputian social life.
Persons displaying skills in rope-dancing or leaping over, and creeping under sticks earned favors and high posts.
Ingratitude was regarded as a capital crime.
A child was not expected to feel obliged to his father for giving birth to him.
Education of children was not the responsibility of parents.
Children of both the sexes were brought up and educated in public nurseries.
Virtues like courage, justice, modesty, religion and patriotism were encouraged.
The Emperor invited Gulliver to dinner one day.
He also brought Filmnap with him.
The Emperor knew that Filmnap and Gulliver were secret enemies.
Filmnap poisoned the ears of the Emperor against Gulliver.
The man-mountain, Gulliver was very difficult to afford and maintain.
The cost of his food, drink and articles was a great burden on the economy of Lilliput.
He wanted Gulliver to be turned out of Lilliput.
One day Gulliver received a lord of the Imperial Court in great secrecy.
He disclosed that a conspiracy was being hatched against him by Fliminap and Bolgolam and some other officials.
They had prepared articles of impeachment against him for treason and other capital crimes.
The visitor produced a copy of those articles of impeachment to Gulliver.
The charges included
pulling the Empress by the arms and lifting her high in the air in both his hands while extinguishing the fire
having refused to seize the remaining ships of Blefuscu having secret discussions with the ambassadors of the enemy state
deciding to visit the court of Blefuscu after receiving only a verbal licence from the Emperor.
The men who wrote the articles demanded that Gulliver should be sentenced to death for high treason.
Reldressel, one of the Gulliver’s well-wishers suggested the Emperor that Gulliver should only be blinded in both eyes instead of being put to death.
In this way, he could be useful to the state and the Emperor.
The Empress had also instigated the Emperor against Gulliver.
Gulliver thought over the coming danger that threatened him.
He decided that the best course for him would be slipping away from Lilliput and taking shelter with the Emperor of Blefuscu.
Of course, the mountain-man Gulliver could have caused a lot of destruction in Lilliput but he didn’t want to be disloyal to the Emperor.
He waded through the intervening channel one day and reached Blefuscu where he was cordially received by the Emperor.
Three days after his arrival in Blefuscu Gulliver observed a boat lying overturned at the beach.
It was a boat of normal size which could carry Gulliver away in the sea.
The Emperor of Blefuscu allowed fitting the boat for a voyage.
In the meanwhile, an urgent message came from Lilliput to Blefuscu sending Gulliver back to Lilliput to be tried for treason there.
The Emperor of Blefuscu ignored the message.
But Gulliver didn’t want to become a bone of contention between the two kingdoms.
So he decided to leave Blefuscu for home.
The Emperor and the royal family came out of their palace to bid farewell to Gulliver.
The Emperor gifted him with a large number of gold coins and his own picture at full length.
Gulliver had stuffed his boat with a large number of oxen, sheep, cows, bulls, etc.
to serve as food for him during the voyage.
He wanted to take some of the animals to England to breed such pigmies there.
The Emperor didn’t allow him to take some natives with him.
On 24th September 1701, Gulliver set sail in the morning.
He caught sight of an English ship.
The captain of the ship, Mr. John Biddle, was a kind man.
Gulliver put cows and ships in his coat-pockets and got on board.
The English ship touched port on 13th April, 1702.
Gulliver was happy and excited to meet his wife and children.
He made satisfactory financial arrangements for the family.
Gulliver was a sea-bird.
Bidding farewell to his wife and children, he went on board a merchant ship Adventure’ bound for Surat.
The merchant ship Adventure’ commenced its voyage on 20th June, 1702 for Surat.
The ship arrived at the Cape of Good Hope where it stopped to have its supply of fresh water.
The captain fell ill and the ship couldn’t leave the Cape till the end of March 1703.
On 19th April, the ship encountered a furious storm.
However, the ship survived the storm successfully.
The Captain sent a few members of the crew by a boat towards the coast in order to look for freshwater.
Gulliver was very anxious to look at the island.
So when the ship approached the island, he too went with the party of sailors.
Gulliver’s curiosity had the better of him.
He left the sailors and ventured into the interior of the island.
When he returned to the shore, he found the boat hurrying away.
It was pursued by a man of huge size and stature.
He looked like a huge monster.
The boat was able to escape from the monster.
Gulliver hid himself in a field.
After some time, Gulliversaw seven other persons of the same huge size.
The man who pursued the boat was the master of the fields.
The other seven were his servants.
They had reaping hooks in their hands and had come to reap the forest.
A few minutes later, the master detected Gulliver lying on the ground.
In comparison to those huge men, Gulliver appeared to be a Lilliputian.
The master picked up Gulliver and lifted him to the level of his eyes.
Gulliver was in a state of shock and panic.
He felt that the giant might dash him against the ground any moment.
But the master treated him kindly.
The giants were watching his activities with interest.
Gulliver tried to show them respect and even took his purse full of gold coins from his pocket and presented to the master.
Gulliver spoke in many languages but failed to have any communication with them.
The owner of the fields took Gulliver to his own house.
His wife screamed after seeing him and ran away.
However, after sometime she became normal and quite fond of him.
At meal-time, a servant brought a big dish about 24 feet in diameter.
The farmer’s wife minced a meat and offered to Gulliver.
The youngest boy of the farmer was very mischievous.
He lifted Gulliver by his leg and held him high in the air.
Gulliver trembled in fear.
However, the farmer rescued Gulliver.
Just at that time the pet cat of the family leaped into the lap of the farmer’s wife.
The cat looked three times bigger than an ox.
After the meals, the nurse brought a one-year child in her arms.
On seeing Gulliver, the child began to scream loudly.
The mother picked up Gulliver and offered him to the child.
The child tried and put Gulliver’s head into his mouth.
Really, he taught the people of Brobdingnag were not deformed but looked ugly because of their gigantic dimensions when compared to the ordinary people of other lands.
Gulliver slept for a few hours in a room which was 200 to 300 feet wide and more than 200 feet high.
He was attacked by a couple of rats of the size of bulldogs.
Gulliver defended himself against them with his swords and was able to kill one of them, while the other fled away.
Gulliver was directed to the garden outside where he could answer the call of nature.
The farmer had a daughter who was about nine-year old.
The girl was very fond of Gulliver.
She looked after him and his needs in every possible way.
She would dress and undress him.
She would teach him their language.
She sewed garments for him.
She was a good natured girl.
She was about 40 feet tall and was thought to be rather undersized for her age.
She called him “manikin” or pigmy.
And he called her glumdalotitch’ which meant “little nurse’ in English.
One day, a visitor to the family, gave a suggestion to the farmer.
Gulliver should be taken on a market-day of the next town and displayed to the people as an object of curiosity.
He could charge a small fee against the display.
The farmer carried Gulliver in a box to the neighboring town on a market day.
He took along with him his little daughter who was Gulliver’s nurse.
Gulliver was badly shaken in his box due to the movement of the horse.
People were then admitted in a room where Gulliver answered their questions as instructed by his nurse.
A young schoolboy threw a hazelnut towards Gulliver’s head but luckily he missed his aim.
Gulliver was shown to many spectators in various towns.
The farmer was finding such exhibitions very profitable.
He wanted to take Gulliver to all the important cities of the kingdom for holding similar shows.
He set out for the metropolis, taking Gulliver and his nurse with him.
The metropolis was situated almost in the middle of the kingdom and was 3000 miles away from the farmer’s house.
The journey took ten weeks on horseback.
Gulliver was shown to public in 18 large towns on the way.
In the metropolis, the farmer took a lodging in the principal street of the city.
It was not far from the royal palace.
He started exhibiting Gulliver for a fee.
Gulliver could now speak the language of the people of Brobdingnag and understood every word that was spoken to him.
Gulliver was subjected to a lot of stress and strain during these public exhibitions.
He was almost reduced to a skeleton.
The report of such exhibitions reached the royal palace.
The Queen was eager to witness such a novelty in the person of Gulliver.
She saw him and developed fascination for such a little creature.
The Queen paid a thousand pieces of gold and bought Gulliver from the farmer.
Gulliver was very happy to pass into the possession of the Queen.
The Queen showed Gulliver to the King.
He was not very impressed with Gulliver.
He was a learned man and was educated in the study of mathematics and philosophy.
He couldn’t understand how such a small man could exist on the earth.
Nor could he believe Gulliver’s account of how he happened to come to Brobdingnag.
The King sent for three great scholars to give their opinions about Gulliver.
They agreed only on one thing.
Gulliver could not have been produced according to the regular laws of nature.
Gulliver didn’t possess the capacity to preserve his life.
He didn’t have swiftness of movement.
He couldn’t climb up trees.
Nor could he dig holes in the earth.
The three scholars came to the conclusion that Gulliver was a freak of nature.
The King directed the Queen to take particular care of Gulliver.
At Gulliver’s request, his nurse, the nine-year old daughter of the farmer, was allowed to look after him in the royal palace.
The Queen liked him so much that she could not dine without his presence by her side.
She was particularly amused to watch Gulliver eating very tiny bits of food.
The Queen would chew a whole bird of huge size, bones and all, between her teeth.
The King also started taking interest in Gulliver’s talks.
He enquired Gulliver about the people, religion, laws, government and learning of European countries.
The King was not impressed by his talks.
He could not believe that small insects like Gulliver could attain any human grandeur.
The Queen kept in her royal palace a dwarf who was like a pet to her.
He began to feel jealous of Gulliver because the queen had become more fond of the newcomer.
One day the dwarf played a trick.
Gulliver fell into a large bowl of cream.
On another occasion, the dwarf thrust Gulliver’s body into a bone from which the morrow had been taken out.
The flies and wasps were also a cause of annoyance for Gulliver.
They were in large numbers in Brobdingnag.
On one occasion the dwarf caught many flies and released them suddenly under Gulliver’s nose in order to frighten him.
The wasps were of the size of partridges in England.
The country of Brobdingnag was a peninsula with mountain thirty miles high on the north-east and the sea on all the sides.
The whale fish was thought to be an excellent food.
It contained 51 cities and about a hundred walled towns and a large number of villages.
The metropolis, Lobrulgrud, equal almost in two equal parts on either side of a river which passed through it.
The city had more than 80000 houses.
The palace of the King was spread over an area of seven miles.
One day Gulliver visited shops.
He saw a crowd of beggars standing there.
There stood a woman with cancer in her breast, swollen into a monstrous size.
It had huge holes in which Gulliver could easily enter.
There was a man with a huge tumor in his neck.
Another beggar stood with a couple of wooden legs, each about 20 feet high.
But to Gulliver, the most hateful sight was the lice crawling on their clothes.
Gulliver wanted to see the chief temple and particulars the tower belonging to it.
The nurse carried him there in a box.
Gulliver was rather disappointed to see the tower.
It was just 3000 feet.
It was rather small considering the huge dimensions of everything in Brobdingnag.
One day Gulliver was in the garden.
The dwarf mischievously shook the branches of an apple tree under which Gulliver stood.
A dozen apples, each as large as a barrel came tumbling down Gulliver’s ears.
One of the apples hit him on his back and knocked him down flat on his face.
One day there was a shower of hailstones.
Gulliver was badly injured by these huge hailstones.
On another occasion a dog seized Gulliver within its mouth and ran away straight to his master.
Luckily, Gulliver was not hurt as the trained dog kept Gulliver gently between the teeth.
On another occasion a kite Swooped upon him.
He drew his sword in time and saved himself.
The royal maids were very inquisitive about Gulliver and often wanted to play with him.
Sometimes they stripped him naked and made him sit on their breasts.
Gulliver was often disgusted with their foul smell.
The maids felt no shame while undressing themselves in Gulliver’s presence as they regarded him an insignificant creature.
One day Gulliver got an opportunity to watch the execution of a criminal.
His head was cut off with one blow with a sword about 40 feet long.
The Queen made every possible effort to please Gulliver.
She devised a method by which he could take regular exercise.
She made him a provision of a pool and a boat which Gulliver could row on the water.
The Queen and her maids were entertained by Gulliver’s skill in rowing.
Once a monkey carried Gulliver off and set him on the top of a building.
He began to play with him.
It was after a good deal of efforts that King’s men could save him.
One day the King asked Gulliver what he would have done with a monkey in his own country.
Gulliver told the King that there were no monkeys in Europe.
In his own country he could have dealt with a dozen monkeys as their size was not the size of an elephant.
The King laughed at Gulliver’s words.
He thought that he was boasting of his prowess.
One day while out for a walk Gulliver fell upon some cow-dung and found himself in the middle up to his knees.
He waded through it with difficulty.
Gulliver had become a favourite of the Queen and also of the King.
On one occasion he made a chair using the Queen’s hair and made a present to her.
On another, he made a little purse (5 feet long) with the Queen’s name written on it in gold letters.
The King was a learned man.
One day he asked many questions related to the people and government of Gulliver’s native country.
Gulliver told the King about the House of Commons and the House of Lords.
The members were selected on the basis of moral and mental ability.
He also told the King about the English judicial system and courts of justice.
Many doubts and objections had arisen in the King’s mind regarding the information which Gulliver had given to him.
The King remained unconvinced.
To him, the history of Gulliver’s country was only a heap of conspiracies, rebellions, murders and massacres.
Hypocrisy, cruelty, hatred and lust were some of its essential features.
The King had a low opinion about Gulliver’s country and his countrymen.
“…….. the bulk of your natives to be the most pernicious race of little odious vermin that Nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth.”

Gulliver knew that the King had formed unfavorable opinions about English life.
The King was isolated from the rest of the world.
His narrow outlook couldn’t comprehend about the situations in European countries.
Gulliver suggested the King to learn how to make gunpowder.
It would make him more powerful.
The King rejected Gulliver’s suggestion summarily.
The King didn’t want such instruments of mass destruction.
It was shocking that “an important and grovelling insect” like Gulliver should entertain such inhuman ideas.
The King was ready to lose half of his kingdom than learn the secret of the manufacture of gunpowder.
He told the King that a number of books had been written in England on the art of government.
The King didn’t believe that the art of government needed any books.
In his opinion, only common sense, reason and justice and such noble virtues are required to run a government.
Whoever could make two ears of corn or two blades of grass upon a piece of land did more service to humanity than all politicians put together.
The learning of the people of Brobdingnag was very defective.
It was limited only to morality, history, poetry and mathematics.
They didn’t know of things that promoted agriculture and mechanical arts.
The King’s library was small and it didn’t have more than a thousand volumes.
Their style of writing was clear, masculine and smooth.
It was not florid.
Superfluity in expression was unknown to them.
The King’s army consisted of one hundred and seventy six thousand soldiers and thirty-two thousand horses.
The army consisted of tradesmen in cities and farmers in the countryside.
The King wanted Gulliver to find a suitable woman for himself to propagate his breed.
Gulliver was averse to this proposal.
In fact, he wanted to leave Brobdingnag and go back home.
In the third year of Gulliver’s stay in Brobdingnag, a strange incident took place.
The King and the Queen were making a journey and had halted close to the sea-side for rest.
Gulliver was being carried in a travelling box to give them a company.
One day an eagle of a huge size caught the ring of the box in his beak and flew away.
He was attacked by a couple of other eagles and the box fell down into the sea.
Luckily, Gulliver was not hurt as he was picked up by a passing ship.
The Captain, Mr. Thomas Wilcocks was a noble man of Shropshire.
Gulliver told him the whole story but he was not prepared to believe Gulliver’s story till he produced a large number of articles from the box as an evidence.
That proved that he had lived in the country of giants-Brobdingnag.
He agreed to take Gulliver with to England whither the ship was bound.
The ship called in at two ports to get provisions and fresh water.
Ultimately, it arrived at an English port on 3rd June, 1706, nine months after Gulliver’s escape from Brobdingnag.
When Gulliver was riding homewards, he was struck by the smallness of the houses, the trees, the cattle and the people in his country.
They looked as if he was in Lilliput again.
It took him quite some time to adjust himself to the normal size and dimensions of objects and persons in England.
Gulliver could stay with his family only for ten days.
Captain William Robinson, the commander of “Hope Well’ offered him the post of a surgeon on his ship.
The ship was to set out on a voyage to the East Indies.
Gulliver’s thirst for seeing the world had not diminished.
So he accepted the offer.
The ship sailed away on 5th August, 1706 and arrived at Fort.
St. George on 11th April, 1707.
Then it sailed to Tonquin and the Captain decided to stay there for some time.
There he bought a sloop.
He loaded the sloop (ship) with several sorts of goods which the Tonquinese used to trade with the neighboring islands.
He made Gulliver Master of the Sloop.
Upon the 10th day, they were chased by pirates.
They searched the sloop.
Gulliver was set adrift in a small canoe with paddles and a sail.
It had provisions only for four days.
About an hour he saw several islands to the South East.
He wanted to reach the nearest islands.
On the 5th day, he arrived at the last island.
It was a rocky island with only a little Sweet smelling grass.
Gulliver was in low spirits.
He wondered how miserable his end could be.
After a few days, he saw a huge opaque body between himself and the sun, moving forward over the island.
It was two miles about the island and it was still moving.
He was highly surprised to see human beings moving about on that body.
They let down a chain from there.
A seat had been fastened to the other end of the chain.
Gulliver caught hold of the chain and got into the seat.
The seat was drawn up by pullies.
Gulliver now found himself on an island in the air.
It was inhabited by a large number of people.
So he could see two islands.
One below and another in the air above the first.
On the Flying Island, Gulliver was surrounded by many people.
They looked at him with great surprise and wonder.
These people had very strange shapes and sizes.
Their hands were all reclined either to the right or the left.
One of their eyes turned inward.
The other eye was turned up towards the sky.
Many of these people were followed by servants called the “flappers’.
The flappers were servants who carried in their hands a blown bladder.
The bladder was fastened to a stick.
The function of the flapper was to serve the need of their masters.
They had to draw the attention of their masters who were always lost in intense speculations.
They were so much lost that they could neither speak nor listen to others.
They had been roused by some external action.
A servant had to strike his master on his mouth or on the ear by the bladder.
It was the only way to draw the attention of the master.
Gulliver was presented to the King.
The King was busy in solving a problem.
Gulliver waited for an hour before the King paid any attention to him.
The King asked many questions but they couldn’t communicate as both were unknown to each other’s language.
Different dishes were served at the dinner.
Gulliver noticed a strange thing.
The food items were given geometrical shapes.
The mutton had been cut in an equilateral triangle.
The beef had been cut into a rhomboid.
The pudding had been shaped into a cycloid.
The other dishes were given the shapes of musical instruments like a harp, a
fiddle or a flute.
The bread had been cut into geometrical figures like cones, cylinders and parallelograms.
Gullivergradually picked up the language of the people there.
He learnt that the name of the island was Laputa.
It meant the “flying-island in English.
The officials ordered a tailor to prepare clothes for Gulliver.
The tailors used all different kinds of instruments to take Gulliver’s measurements.
The tailor made clothes which were badly made and out of shape as he had made a mistake in his calculations.
Music and mathematics were two principal interests of the people and they paid no attention to any other matter.
Their ideas found expressions through lines and figures.
Even to describe the beauty of a woman, they used circles and parallelograms or the musical terms.
The houses were badly built without any right angle in their shapes.
People looked ugly and clumsy.
They were good at mathematics and music only.
They had very poor reasoning and imagination.
Inventions were alien to them.
The people of Laputa were constantly in a state of “disquietude.
They never enjoyed peace of mind even for a moment.
Their main fears came from heavenly bodies.
They also feared that the earth would be swallowed by the sun or the face of the sun would grow dark.
Such fears made them restless.
They couldn’t sleep and had no peace of mind.
Women of their islands were different from their men.
Their minds were not obsessed with fears.
Their husbands were always occupied with their own thoughts and calculations.
They had no time for their wives.
Their wives turned to strangers for entertainment.
These strangers were to be found in a large number at the royal court.
They came from different continents on the earth below.
The women made love to the strangers.
Their husbands had no time and paid no attention to them.
The Flying Island was circular with a diameter of about four miles and a half.
The bottom contained a regular and even plate.
There was a hollow from where the astronomers descended into a large dome.
Twenty lamps were continually burning in the cave.
The greatest curiosity of the island was a loadstone or magnet of a huge size, 6 yards in length and three in thickness.
The entire fate of the island depended on this loadstone or magnet.
The loadstone was held in that position by a very strong axle of adamant passing through its middle.
The island was made to rise and fall and move from one place to the other by means of this loadstone.
The loadstone had its limitations.
It could not move beyond the extent of the King’s dominions below on the earth.
It couldn’t rise up for more than 4 miles.
Some astronomers managed the loadstone.
They gave it such positions as the King desired.
They had extraordinary telescopes.
They spent most of their times in observing heavenly bodies.
They had made wonderful discoveries beyond those made by European astronomers.
They had made ten thousand fixed stars.
They discovered two satellites revolving round Mars and 39 different comets.
The King could destroy towns and cities below on the earth in case the people revolted against him.
Three years before Gulliver’s arrival here, the people of a city below on the earth had revolted against the King.
The King yielded to those people as he could not take the extreme step of destroying his own people.
Gulliver was well treated in the island of Laputa.
But he felt neglected.
He wanted to leave the island.
During his two month’s stay, he could have discussions mainly with women, tradesmen, flappers and court-pages.
Through the influence of a friendly lord at the court, Gulliver was able to get the King’s permission to leave the island.
The King gave two hundred pounds as a present to Gulliver and the great lord also gave as much money to him.
The lord gave a letter of recommendation to a friend of his in Lagado, the metropolis of Balnibarbi.
Gulliver rather felt happy to be on the firm ground again after having stayed on the Flying Island.
He contacted the great man, Munodi, for whom the letter of recommendation was given.
He had been the governor of Lagado and had been replaced due to his inefficiency.
But he still had the love and affection of the King.
Munodi told Gulliver that 40 years ago some persons had gone to Laputa either for business or for diversion.
After a few months, they came back to Balnibarbi from Laputa.
They expressed their dislike and dissatisfaction for the management of things in Balnibarbi.
They tried to introduce some new schemes with regard to arts, sciences and mechanics in Balnibarbi.
They devised new rules and methods of agriculture and new buildings.
Munodialso pointed out that none of the projects of those people succeeded or achieved any good results.
The whole country now lay in a state of neglect.
Munodi himself continued to follow the old methods.
He had made many enemies in the kingdom.
But Munodi had been able to preserve his estate in its original form.Gulliver paid a visit to the Academy of Projectors in Lagado.
He was warmly received by the warden.
The bearded man had been engaged for the last 8 years upon a project for extracting Sunbeams out of cucumbers.
Another man at the Academy had been employed for a long time in experimenting aimed at restoring human excrement to its original food by separating several parts.
One of the Projectors was trying to calcine ice into gun powder.
A most ingenious architect had invented new methods for building houses by beginning at the roof and working downwards to the foundation.
A blind man was engaged in mixing colours for painters who claimed to distinguish colours by his sense of touch or smell.
One Projector had found a device for ploughing the ground with hogs.
However, the experiment didn’t give good results in agriculture.
In one of the rooms of the Academy, Gulliver found all walls and the ceiling covered with cobwebs to obtain silk from the webs.
A great physician claimed that he could cure colic by performing operations with a large pairs of bellows.
He demonstrated his experiment on a dog who made a violent discharge of wind and then died on the spot.
One of the Projectors was regarded as the universal artist.
He was trying to breed sheep which would have no wool upon their bodies.
Some Projectors had developed a method by which even an ignorant person could produce books on philosophy, poetry, politics, law, mathematics, and theology.
At the mathematical school, proposition and demonstration were taught to be written on a thin wafer with an ink made of a cephalic tincture.
Gulliver also visited the school of political projects at the Academy of Lagado.
The professors at the school were busy in various schemes.
They had a scheme for persuading Kings to choose favorites on the basis of their wisdom, capacity and virtue.
There was a project to keep legislators in a fit mental condition.
They must be administered medicines so that they should not talk any nonsense during the rest of the session.
Similarly, one professor made medicines that could stimulate the memories of the favorite of kings.
Another novel scheme was regarding reconciliation between the views of the two opposing parties.
Methods have been devised for raising funds through taxation.
One method was to impose a tax upon vices and follies.
Another tax was calculated on the basis of the opinion that a citizen had about his own merit or ability.
The higher the opinion, the higher would be the tax.
Gulliver left Lagado to go to Japan on his way back home.
But the ship bound for Luggnagg was not ready to leave Maldonado not before a month.
So Gulliver was asked to visit the nearby island of Glubbdubdrib.
A gentleman offered to accompany Gulliver with a friend on this short trip.
The word “Glubbdubdrib’ meant the island of magicians.
All the members of the tribe were magicians.
The tribe married only among themselves and the eldest in succession became the governor.
The Governor must know the magic of summoning anyone from the king of the dead and command their services for 24 hours.
Gulliver was granted an interview by the governor.
Gulliver told him about his various voyages and adventures.
At the dinner a number of ghosts served the meals and waited at the table.
The governor asked Gulliver if he had a desire to talk to any dead person.
Gulliver wanted to see Alexander the Great.
At the movement of the governor’s hand, the ghost of Alexander appeared in a large field outside.
Alexander was summoned in the room.
In answer to a question, Alexander disclosed that he was not poisoned to death as books of history said.
He died of a fever caused by excessive drinking.
Then Gulliver was able to talk to the ghosts of Hannibal, Caesar, Pompey, Brutus and several other ancient personalities.
At Gulliver’s request, the governor summoned Homer and Aristotle.
The governor also summoned Descartes and Gassendi.
Aristotle admitted his own mistakes in natural philosophy.
He also saw many of the ancient Roman emperors.
Then Gulliver requested the governor to summon a dozen or
so of the modern kings of Europe, along with his ancestors.
Gulliver was much disappointed to know that some of the kings had a barber and other low ranking persons as their ancestors.
He also found how some of the royal families indulged in cruelty, falsehood and cowardice.
By this interrogation of the dead persons, Gulliver discovered how the world had been misled by writers.
They attributed the greatest victories in war to cowards.
He also learnt how a whore had been able to govern a country through her influence over her powerful lover in the senate.
An army general confessed Gulliver how he won a victory purely by his cowardice and ill conduct.
Gulliver also found that perjury, oppression, fraud and false praise had played a great part in moulding the course of history.
Gulliver took leave of the governor of Glubbdubdrib and returned to Maldonada.
Then after a fortnight’s waiting, he boarded a ship for Luggnagg.
On the arrival, Gulliver had to lick the dust before the foot-stool of the King because that was the custom there.
Anyone who wanted to meet the King had to crawl upon his belly and lick the floor.
Gulliver carried out the ritual.
He had to utter certain words in the praise of the King in their language.
The King was greatly pleased with Gulliver’s visit.
He asked his officials to look after Gulliver properly and to show him every courtesy.
Gulliver stayed three months in the country.
He was very warmly treated there.
Gulliver found the people of Luggnagg very polite and generous.
One day Gulliver was asked if he had seen or met any of the immortals of this land.
He was told that Luggnagg had many immortals.
They were called Struldbruggs.
Gulliver naturally thought them to be very fortunate persons.
Gulliver was asked what he would do if he had been immortal.
Gulliver replied that first of all he would make himself extremely rich.
He would then give himself to the study of arts and sciences in order to become most learned.
And finally he would record the behaviour and actions of all the important rulers and statesmen.
He would become a living treasury of knowledge and wisdom.
Gulliver was shocked and surprised to know that the immortals of Luggnagg were not so fortunate as he had imagined them to be.
The immortals were the most miserable persons in the land.
They longed for death which didn’t come to them.
They were peevish, morose and vain.
They were incapable of friendship and dead to all affection and love.
Whenever they saw a funeral, they lamented that they couldn’t die and get peace.
Gulliver was shown a group of immortals.
They presented the most horrible sight he had ever seen.
On seeing their terrible and miserable condition, Gulliver no longer wished for immortality.
Gulliver obtained the permission of the King of Luggnagg to leave the country.
He wanted to go to Japan and from there to proceed to his native country.
The King honoured him with a letter of recommendation to the Emperor of Japan and presented him with a large quantity of gold.
Gulliver landed in Japan after three weeks.
The letter of recommendation proved very useful in Japan.
The Emperor exempted him from the ceremony of trampling upon the crucifix.
Gulliver posed to be a Dutch man as only the Dutch were permitted to enter Japan from Europe.
The King helped Gulliver to reach Nagasac (Nagasaki) on 9th June, 1709.
There he boarded a Dutch ship “Amboyna’ bound for Amsterdam.
From Amsterdam he soon afterward sailed to England where he arrived after an absence of five and a half years.
From the port he went straight to Redriff.
He was happy to meet his wife and children who were in good health.
Gulliver stayed with his wife and children for about 5 months.
Then he accepted an offer made to him by the captain of ship named “Adventure’.
The ship sailed from Portsmouth on the 7th September, 1710.
In the course of his new voyage, Gulliver was attacked by the members of the crew.
Most of the crew had previously been pirates.
They took charge of the ship.
They threw Gulliver down on the sea-coast and sailed away.
So Gulliver found himself all alone in a new and strange country.
Then he walked into the interior of the country.
He expected to find hostile savages.
He could see tracks of human feet, cows and horses.
The shape of the animals were very strange and deformed.
Gulliver hid himself and wanted to observe things still better.
He was surprised to note that animals could climb up trees effortlessly like squirrels.
They could jump and leap with great agility.
The female animals were shorter and their breasts touched the ground between their forefeet.
Gulliver soon developed aversion to these animals.
Gulliver was spotted by one of the strange creatures.
He drew his sword.
The next moment he was surrounded by a large number of them.
Gulliver’s life was in danger.
But soon a horse appeared.
The crowd of those creatures ran away in great confusion on seeing the horse.
The horse stood gazing at Gulliver.
Then another horse appeared and the two greeted each other by striking each other’s right hoof.
The behaviour of the two horses was quite rational and orderly.
Gulliver spoke to them in his own language and appealed for help.
They heard Gulliver and communicated in their language by neighing several times.
Gulliver could catch only one word “Yahoo’.
He also uttered it in a loud voice.
The horses seemed pleased.
Then they pronounced another word which Gulliver learnt after several efforts.
It was “Houyhnhnm’.
One of the horses signalled Gulliver to accompany him.
The horse escorted him to his abode.
He seemed to be the boss.
Gulliver also saw a few of those creatures which he saw for the first time.
The horses called those creatures “Yahoos’.
The “Yahoos’ ate the flesh of animals.
The Yahoos looked like human beings but looked quite ugly and detestable.
They were subservient or servants to the horses.
The horses were now trying to teach Gulliver their own language and he picked up slowly.
The problem of food was solved.
Gulliver could drink cow’s milk.
Gulliver could catch a rabbit or a bird sometimes and feed himself.
He could make butter from milk.
The horses also made suitable arrangements for Gulliver’s stay.
Houyhnhnms treated Gulliver like a brute animal better than most of the brutes.
They found in Gulliver some marks of a rational being not found in the Yahoos.
Gulliver’s capacity for learning, his politeness and cleanliness astonished the chief.
Such qualities were absent in the Yahoos.
In about ten weeks, Gulliver was able to understand much of the language of the Houyhnhnms.
He gave a full and detailed account of himself to the master.
Gulliver found that among the Houhnhnms language there was no word for “lying’ or “falsehood’.
This proved that they had never lied.
Actually, they had no notion of lies and falsehood.
The word “Houyhnhnm’ meant a horse.
It also conveyed the idea of “the perfection of nature’.
In other words the Houyhnhnms were supposed to represent perfection among animals.
The Houyhnhnms were surprised to see Gulliver wearing clothes.
Neither the Yahoos nor they Houyhnhnms wore any clothes.
The master was surprised to know that the people of Gulliver’s country considered nakedness a matter of shame to them.
The master questioned Gulliver on many points.
Gulliver told him about his people and the government.
Gulliver could not uhderstand the cause for the degenerated and the brutal nature of the Yahoos.
They resembled human beings living in his country.
The master couldn’t believe Gulliver’s account of his people and country.
But doubting and disbelieving were little known among the Houyhnhnms.
The master asked if they had any Houyhnhnms in their country.
Gulliver told that the Houyhnhnms (horses) of his country were very strong, swift and industrious.
But when they became old and useless, they were discarded or sold.
Gulliver also told that their hoofs were shod with iron so that they could walk on the stony ways easily.
The master felt insulted that houyhnhnms (horses) in Gulliver’s country were used to carry people on their backs.
He felt more insulted to know that most of the Houyhnhnms (horses) were castrated to make them more gentle and tame.
The master of the Houyhnhnms regarded reason or rationality as the supreme virtue.
The master found many faults with parts of Gulliver’s body.
He criticised the flatness of his face, the prominence of Gulliver’s nose.
He also found that Gulliver’s eyes were situated directly in front and couldn’t look on either side without turning like a Houyhnhnm.
The master was very inquisitive about Gulliver and his origin.
Gulliver told him that he was form of honest parents in an island called England.
He was trained as a surgeon and his trade was to cure diseases and wounds in the body.
His country was governed by a female who was known as the Queen.
The people lose their money on litigation, drinking, gambling and debanchery.
Many were guilty of murder, theft, robbery, forgery, rape, sodomy and so on.
The master was shocked and surprised to know that the people of England had so many vices and evils in them.
Gulliver explained that the root cause of these vices was their desire for wealth and power.
That created lust, envy and malice.
The master failed to understand such matters fully.
Gulliver gave an elaborate account of wars in Europe.
About a million of Yahoos (human beings) were killed in long wars between England and France.
The ambition of kings and the corruption of ministers caused wars.
Sometimes kings hired out their soldiers to other nations to earn money.
Gulliver couldn’t claim that his countrymen possessed the faculty of reason.
The master expressed his shock that so many people died in European wars.
Gulliver told him about the destructive weapons of war the nations of Europe possessed.
Then he told the master how lawsuits were fought in English courts.
Each lawyer claimed the just cause of his client.
Even the judges who presided over the courts were not often guided by the principles of justice.
There were long delays in the settlements of law suits.
Gulliver continued his accounts of England.
He described him the power of money.
He also explained the value of metals in his country.
AYahoo or a human being could buy finest clothes, houses, land, most costly food and drinks if he had money or costly metals.
The rich exploited the labour of the poor.
The number of poor people was vastly larger than the number of the rich people.
Drinking wine was common in England.
The people drank to forget their troubles and fears.
The people ate when they were not hungry and drank when they were not thirsty.
The prostitute female Yahoos in Gulliver’s country suffered from various venereal diseases and then transmitted them to others.
The physicians were interested in earning money rather than curing the patients.
Gulliver told the master that the prime minister in England was wholly free from joy and grief, love and hatred, pity and anger.
He had a violent desire for wealth, power and titles.
A man rose to the post of chief minister by using shady means like using his wife, daughter or sister to promote his interest.
The monarch always appointed a chief minister who was submissive and subservient.
English noblemen married for money and dowry.
Gulliver was greatly impressed by many noble qualities he found in the Houyhnhnms.
He was totally impressed by love for truth.
They had no notion of lying or falsehdod.
Actually, the noble qualities and virtues of the Houyhnhnms left such a deep impression on him that he decided to stay in their country for ever.
He didn’t want to go to his native country again.
The master had developed a mixed attitude towards Gulliver.
He considered him a superior kind of Yahoo who had rational thinking but was too weak to run fast or to climb trees.
He also found fault with the laws and the government of Gulliver’s country.
The master described Gulliver the way of life of the Yahoos in his country.
They were very fond of certain shining stones.
Their love for shining stones proceeded from the same avarice and greed from which the people of Gulliver’s country suffered.
The Yahoos had odious habits of eating.
They could eat everything that came on their way.
They drank the juice of a certain root.
It produced the same effect as wine had on the people in England.
The master told Gulliver that the Yahoos were the only animals in their country subject to diseases.
They cured their diseases through mixtures of dung and urine.
A leader of a Yahoo group was a creature more deformed in body and mischievous in nature than any of the others.
The leader had a favourite.
The job of the favourite was to lick his master’s feet and supply him women Yahoos.
The favourite was greatly hated by the group.
When the leader discarded the favourite, all male and female Yahoos discharged their excrements upon him from head to foot.
The master also described the behaviour of female Yahoos.
A female Yahoo would often stand behind a bush and lure a male.
She would take him to a sheltered place.
On such occasions the female Yahoo gave the most offensive smell.
From the master’s account Gulliver understood that the female Yahoos in this country were no different from the women in his own country.
Lewdness and coquetry were common to all womankind.
Gulliver watched the behavior and actions of the Yahoos from a distance.
They had already attacked him.
There was always a danger of further attacks.
He never went to a place where Yahoos lived without a guard, a horse.
Gulliver found that Yahoos were of a perverse disposition.
They were cunning, mischievous, revengeful and cowardly.
The Houyhnhnms used Yahoos for various labors in their fields.
One day Gulliver was bathing in a river.
A female suddenly rushed towards him and caught him in a close embrace.
Gulliver raised an alarm and was rescued by his escort, a horse.
The Houyhnhnms possessed many virtues.
They were totally governed by reason.
Decency and politeness were their virtues.
These were no controversies and disputes among them.
Friendship and benevolence were their favored principles.
They brought up their colts or foals in accordance with the dictates of reason.
After giving birth to a male and a female Houyhnhnm, a female Houyhnhnm stopped having sexual intercourse with her consort.
The caution was necessary to contain the population.
Among the Houyhnhnms, strength was valued in males and attractiveness in females.
They had no notion of courtship, love or dowry.
They wanted to save their race from degeneration by proper mating.
They never violated the laws of marriage and were never guilty of disloyalty.
The young Houyhnhnms showed their proficiency in running, leaping and other feats of strength four times a year.
Every fourth year, a representative assembly of the whole nation was held for five or six days.
They discussed whether there was excess or shortage of hay or oats or cows or Yahoos.
A grand assembly of the Houyhnhnms was held during Gulliver’s stay in their country.
The issue of the Yahoos’ extermination came up for discussion.
The Yahoos were most filthy, noisy and deformed animals which nature had produced.
However, Gulliver’s master said that he was not in favour of the extermination of the Yahoos from the face of the earth.
The master had heard from Gulliver how horses were castrated to make them tame and incapable of reproduction of their species.
The master suggested adopting the method of castration to the Yahoos.
In the course of time the whole Yahoo-race would come to an end.
He urged the Houyhnhnms to cultivate the breed of asses who would prove more valuable than the Yahoos in all respects.
The Houyhnhnms suffered from no diseases and never needed any physicians.
They calculated the length of the year by the revolutions of the sun and the moon but didn’t divide it into weeks.
Their poetry was excellent.
Friendship, benevolence and the praise of the winners in race were their favourite subjects for poetry.
They had no word in their language to express anything that was evil.
Gulliver found himself happy and contented among the Houyhnhnms.
Their society was totally free from treachery, of enmity or evil.
They only thought and discussed honesty, friendship, benevolence, poetry, order, economy and reason among themselves.
Gulliver was highly impressed by the wisdom and virtues of the Houyhnhnms.
Actually, he started imitating their manners and style himself.
One day the master shocked and surprised Gulliver.
In the last assembly of the Houyhnhnms, it was decided that Gulliver could not live in their country.
He was a member of the Yahoo race.
Gulliver was grief-stricken to hear it.
On coming back to senses, Gulliver said that he preferred death to expulsion.
The master showed his helplessness and gave just two month’s time to make arrangements to leave.
Gulliver built for himself a special kind of canoe.
And after bidding farewell to his master and others, he sailed away from the shore.
Gulliver left the land of the Houyhnhnms on 15th February, 1715.
He sailed away without knowing where he was going.
He touched the land after several weeks.
He was afraid to go far and stayed on the sea-coast for 3 days.
On the fourth day he was attacked by a group of naked men and women with arrows.
He was wounded but succeeded in escaping from them.
He sailed away in his canoe and soon saw a ship which picked him up from his canoe.
The sailors were Europeans and spoke to him in Portuguese.
Gulliver replied to their questions in the tones and accents of the Houyhnhnms.
They began to laugh at his way of speaking resembled the neighing of a horse.
Gulliver remained resentful and sullen.
He was not all happy to come back among the race of men whom he had started hating.
In fact, he didn’t want to return to his own country.
But the Captain was bent upon taking him there.
The ship arrived at Lisbon.
For a few weeks the Captain kept Gulliver in his own house.
Then Gulliver boarded an English ship and sailed for England.
It was on the 5th December, 1715 that Gulliver landed at an English port.
He went to his house at Redriff on the same day.
Gulliver was received with great surprise and joy by his wife and family.
But he was not happy to see them again.
He was filled only with hatred, disgust and contempt on seeing them.
After staying with the Houyhnhnms, he had developed hatred for the human race.
He couldn’t stand the sight of even the members of his own family.
When his wife kissed him, he was so horrified that he fainted.
Gulliver started writing an account of his travels.
During the first year he could not endure his wife or children in his presence.
With the money that he was able to save, he bought two young horses.
He treated the horses very kindly and regarded them as his true companions.
He used to converse with these horses at least four hours a day.
Gulliver gave his readers a faithful history of his travels extending over a period of sixteen and a half years.
His aim was to make his readers wiser and improve their minds by giving the accounts of his travels.
Whoever read the virtues of the Houyhnhnms, couldn’t fail to feel ashamed of the vices of the human race.
Gulliver claimed that he had written his account without any monetary gain or seeking any praise from anybody.
It was suggested to Gulliver that he should report his discoveries of new lands to his government.
Those lands could be conquered.
Gulliver wanted England and its people to learn the virtues of justice, truth, courage, chastity, friendship, benevolence and loyalty from the Houyhnhnms.
Gulliverpromised to contemplate upon those excellent virtues which he had found among the Houyhnhnms.
He would also try to instruct the Yahoos of his own family.
Their smell still continued to offend him.
Pride, in Gulliver’s opinion was the most hateful quality in a man.
Helen Keller was born on June 27, 1880 in Tuscumbia, a little town of northern Alabama.
The family on her father’s side descended from Casper Keller, a native of Switzerland, who settled in Maryland.
Her grandfather, Caspar Keller’s son, also acquired large tracts of land in Alabama and finally settled there.
Her grandmother Keller was the daughter of Alexander Moore and second cousin to Robert E Lee.
Her father’s name was Arthur H. Keller who was a captain in the Confederate Army and her mother was Kate Adams who was many years younger to her husband as she was his second wife.
Helen Keller lived in a small house which consisted of a large square room and a small one in which the servant slept.
There was a custom in the south to build a small house near the homestead as an annex to be used on occasion and such a house was built by her father after the Civil War.
After his marriage to Kate, Helen’s mother, he shifted to
that house.
The house was covered with vines, climbing roses and honeysuckles.
There was a screen of yellow roses and Southern Smilax which hid the, little porch.
It was the favourite haunt of humming birds and bees.
The family lived in the Keller Homestead, also known as ‘Ivy Green’ because the house, the surrounding trees and fences were covered with ivy.
Helen considered the house as the paradise of her childhood.
Helen’s life began on a simple note.
The very naming of the child, i.e., Helen was an emphatic one.
Her father suggested the name of Mildred Campbell whom he regarded highly but her mother put an end to all discussions by saying that she would be called after her mother, Helen Everett.
Helen was taken to the church for christening but on the way, her father lost the name.
He just remembered that it had to be after Helen’s grandmother so he gave her the name Helen Adams.
In her childhood, Helen was an eager and self-asserting child.
She imitated everyone and learnt walking as well as talking at an early age.
But her happiness did not last long.
One day in the month of February, she fell ill.
The doctors termed it as an acute congestion of the stomach and brain.
They even thought that she would not live.
It was a mysterious fever which left her suddenly and mysteriously.
But it took her eye-sight along with it.
With each passing day, her eyes turned dry and hot and became dimmer and she felt silence all around.
It was a nightmare for her when she realised that she had lost her eyes and ears.
The whole world to her was dark and silent.
In the initial months after her illness, Helen either sat in her mother’s lap or cling to her dress when she went about doing her household chores.
She touched every object and observed every motion thus enabling her to understand the outer world.
She started communicating using sign language.
A shake of her head meant ‘No’ and a nod ‘Yes’, a pull meant ‘Come’ and push ‘Go’.
Her mother was of great help to her and she turned her long dark nights into bright and good ones with her wisdom.
She was always sent for when they had guests and she waved her hand to them when they took their leave.
But after sometime, Helen started realising that she was different from others.
She noticed that sign language was not used by other people but they used their lips to talk.
She used to touch their lips and then hers.
She could feel the difference and sometimes she used to get so angry that she kicked and screamed till she got exhausted.
Helen was a naughty girl.
She used to kick her nurse Ella and dominated her cook’s daughter Martha Washington.
Her sources of interest were the sheds where the com was stored, the stable where horses were kept and the yards where the cows were milked.
Once she was saved from fire by her old nurse, Viny.
In this way her mischiefs kept on increasing.
By this time, she had found out the use of a key and locked her mother in the pantry for three hours.
Her mother kept on pounding on the’door, while she sat outside on the steps and laughed.
This was the naughtiest prank ever done by Helen and Miss Sullivan was appointed as a teacher.
But Helen locked even her and hid the key under the wardrobe in the hall.
Miss Sullivan was taken out through the window.
Helen’s father was most loving and devoted to his home.
Apart from this he was a great hunter.
He loved being hospitable and seldom came home without bringing a guest.
He raised watermelons and strawberries in his special big garden.
Her father was a story-teller also and used to spell clumsily into Helen’s hands some of his cleverest anecdotes.
But unfortunately after a short illness, he died in 1896.
Helen’s mother was equally near Helen’s heart.
So much so that she regarded her little sister as an intruder out of jealousy.
Once she overturned the cradle in which her little sister was sleeping just because it belonged to Nancy, Helen’s doll.
She was saved from falling by her mother.
Later on, both of them became good friends.
With the passage of time, Helen started feeling uncomfortable and inadequate with her sign language.
She often underwent outbursts of passion and generally broke down in tears and physical exhaustion.
Her parents were deeply grieved to see her in such condition and had lost all hope of getting her taught as they lived in out of the way place as Tuscumbia.
But Dickens’ ‘American Notes’ brought a ray of hope.
Her mother read about the story of Laura Bridgman who was deaf and blind yet had been educated.
But Dr. Howe, who had discovered the ways to teach such children had been dead many years.
It was only when Helen reached the age of six that they heard of an eminent oculist in Baltimore who had treated many such cases.
They immediately decided to meet him.
They caught a train and reached Baltimore.
Dr. Chrisholem received them kindly but further told them to consult Dr. Alexander Graham Bell of Washington to get more information about schools and teachers of deaf or blind children.
They met Dr. Bell who understood her signs and left a deep impression on Helen’s mind.
He advised Helen’s father to write to Mr. Anagnos, director of the Perkins Institution in Boston to ask him about a teacher who could teach Helen.
They received the reply telling them about Miss Sullivan who arrived the following March.
The day Miss Sullivan arrived was the most important day in Helen’s life.
It was March 3,1887 and Helen was around seven years old.
On that day, she could feel that something important was going to happen as there was a lot of to and fro in the house.
Then Miss Anne Manefield Sullivan arrived who gave her a doll.
The children at the Perkins Institution had sent it for her.
When she had played with it a little while, Miss Sullivan slowly spelled the world ‘d-o- 1-T which Helen tried to imitate.
Later, she learned to spell pin, cup, sit, stand, walk, mug, water, etc.
Miss Sullivan taught her the word ‘water’ in a different way.
She took her to a well.
There she spelled the word ‘water’ in one hand and on the other she could feel the cool stream of water flowing over her hand.
It was a strange feeling but it left her with a new hope, light and joy.
She felt herself to be the happiest child that day and for the first time she waited for a new day to come.
The arrival of Miss Sullivan filled Helen’s life with confidence and joy.
She kept on teaching her something or the other.
Her next chapter was nature.
She took her to the fields, to the banks of Tennesse River to learn about nature.
Helen started enjoying the world she lived in.
Miss Sullivan made her feel beauty in the woods, blades of grass, birds, flowers, in fact almost everything.
But one stormy day gave Helen a feeling that nature can be cruel also.
She was sitting on the branch of a tree and Miss Sullivan proposed to have lunch there only.
Helen agreed to the proposal and Miss Sullivan went home to bring the lunch.
Helen was left alone there.
Suddenly, Helen felt the heat of sun lessening and a terrible shaking of trees.
She grew frightened and longed for her teacher’s arrival.
The feeling of terror kept on increasing and she made up her mind to jump down.
Suddenly her teacher seized her hand and helped her down.
The experience shook Helen terribly.
It took her a long time to gather enough courage to climb another tree.
But finally she climbed the mimosa tree which had large branches and rough barks.
The feeling of having done something wonderful and unusual filled Helen’s mind.
She felt like a fairy on a rosy cloud and spent many happy hours in the tree.
After learning a few words, Helen was eager to learn how to use them.
She knew her vocabulary was insufficient but as she learned more and more words, her field of enquiry widened.
She was always eager to know something more.
One such word was ‘love’, she wanted to know the meaning of this word.
Miss Sullivan tried to teach her the meaning by kissing her, by gently holding her but somehow she didn’t understand it.
But one day suddenly when the sun shone after brief showers, she felt the meaning of love.
Miss Sullivan told her that love is to be felt and not touched.
Immediately she realised whaf love is.
In the same way, she was taught another abstract word ‘think’ by Miss Sullivan by touching her forehead and spelling it.
By now Helen could make out that a deaf child can’t learn any lesson within a month or a year as an ordinary child can by imitating or repeating as these exchange of ideas are denied to the deaf.
But Miss Sullivan came to her help here also and told her to repeat as far as possible.
It is difficult for the deaf and the blind to do it as they can neither see the expressions of the speaker nor can they hear the tone of the voice.
The next step in Helen’s education was learning to read.
For this purpose, her teacher gave her slips of cardboard which had raised letters printed on them and each printed word stood for something like an object, act or a quality.
There was a frame also in which she could arrange the words in little sentences.
Helen started arranging words like ‘doll-is-on-bed’, ‘girl-is-in-wardrobe’, etc.
After that she took the book ‘Reader for Beginners’ and looked for the words she knew.
Thus she began to read also.
She had no regular lesson.
Her teacher taught her by illustrating a story or a poem and she kept on learning grammar, hard sums, definition, etc.
She learnt all these lessons in the lap of nature sometimes amongst the flowers and sometimes in the orchard.
Helen learnt geography, arithmetic, zoology and botany-all in a leisurely manner.
Arithmetic seemed a disinteresting subject to Helen.
In science, she was taught the growth of a plant in its actual form.
She enjoyed her lessons as she learnt them from life itself.
But it was all because of her teacher who was teaching her in such a way that everything around her breathed of love, joy and was full of meaning.
Helen was delighted in the company of her teacher as she had a great influence on her life.
Helen kept on climbing the steps of learning under the expert guidance of Miss Sullivan until Christmas approached.
It was her first Christmas with Miss Sullivan.
Both of them prepared surprises for all others.
Helen’s greatest amusement and happiness lay in the mystery that surrounded the gifts which she was to receive.
Her curiosity was further aroused by her friends.
She kept on playing the guessing game with Miss Sullivan.
On the eve of Christmas, the Tuscumbia School Children invited Helen to a beautiful Christmas tree which provided extreme happiness to Helen.
She was told that there was a gift for everyone.
She was very excited but she kept on waiting for the real gift that she would get on the day of Christmas.
Next morning, with her first ‘Merry Christmas’, she was presented a canary-a bird which made her extremely happy.
She took great care of the bird.
But one day while she was away a cat rushed upon it and the bird was gone.
In May, 1888, Helen visited Boston with Miss Sullivan.
The journey to Boston was very different from her journey to Baltimore which she had made two years before.
She sat quietly beside Miss Sullivan who told her about everything that she saw out of the car-window.
She told her about the beautiful Tennessee River, the great cotton-fields, the hills, woods, laughing negroes-in fact each and everything.
Helen took her rag doll Nancy also to Boston.
On the way, she forced Nancy, the doll, to eat remains of mud pies which covered her with dust.
She was carried away to give a bath at the Perkins Institution which left her in a heap of cotton.
It was bad for Nancy.
When they reached the Perkins Institution for the Blind, Helen became quiet friendly with the little blind children.
She liked the idea of being with the blind and felt one with them.
She found that they were all so happy and contented despite being deprived of a precious gift.
She herself lost the sense of pain in their company.
She had her first lesson in history when they visited Bunker Hill and her first voyage when they went to Plymouth by water.
She paid a visit to Miss William Endicott’s house with whom she had made friends.
She enjoyed her visit to Miss Endicott’s Beverly farms.
Mr. Endicott was also a kind-hearted man and became one of Helen’s good friends whom she always remembered.
The Perkins Institution used to close for the summer.
It was almost time for the summer vacation and it was decided that Helen and her teacher would spend their vacation at Brewstar, on cape cod with Mrs. Sophia Hopkins-a matron at the same institution.
Helen was delighted when she heard about her vacation.
Actually, she had planned to make her wish come true and her wish was to touch the mighty sea and feel it roar.
On reaching there, she was helped into the bathing suit.
Without having any thought of fear, she jumped into the cool water and felt the great billows rock and sink.
The movement of the water filled her with joy.
But suddenly her joy turned into terror when her foot struck against a rock and she felt a rush of water over her hand.
She struggled a lot to come out of it but all went in vain.
Suddenly, the sea threw her back on the shore and left her.
It was a terrible experience for her but still she recovered from it and sat on a big rock to feel the waves dash against it.
It was a wonderful experience.
One day, while enjoying the waves, her attention was attracted by Miss Sullivan towards a horseshoe crab.
‘ Helen was amazed when she fell the crab ‘carrying his house on his back’.
She took it home to make her pet.
When she reached home, she put the crab in a trough near the well, confident enough that it was secure.
The next morning she went to meet her little pet only to realize that it had disappeared.
There was no answer to where and how he had escaped.
She was disappointed but later felt it was better for the dumb creature as perhaps he had returned to the sea where he belonged.
Time passed by and it was autumn when Helen returned to her Southern home.
Her heart was full of happy memories of the days spent in the North.
Her life there was as full of motion as little insects which crowd a whole existence into one brief day.
She spent the autumn months with her family at Fern Quarry – their summer cottage on a mountain about fourteen miles from Tuscumbia.
There were small rooms in the cottage and round the house was a wide piazza where they worked, ate and played most of the time.
The evenings in the Fern Quarry were pleasant as there were many visitors who used to play cards or spent their time in talk by the campfire.
Generally, the men talked about their wonderful feats with fowl, fish, ducks, turkeys, etc.
They all were hunters and they shouted “Tomorrow to the Chase!” before they went to sleep.
There was a lot of noise of the heavy steps of hunters in the morning as they were getting ready to go out for hunting.
Meanwhile the others made preparation for a barbeque.
When the excitement of the preparation was at its height, the hunters came back hot and weary with not a single kill.
They seemed disappointed but soon forgot about it to a tamer feast of veal and roast pig.
Helen had a pony also at Fern Quarry whom she called Black Beauty and she often went riding on it.
She enjoyed the time spent on riding.
At the foot of the mountain there was a railroad which attracted children towards it because of the trains whizzing by.
One day Mildred, Miss Sullivan and Helen lost their path in the woods there and wandered for hours to find it.
Suddenly, Mildred saw a trestle which would have been a short cut to their home.
Helen felt for the rails with her toe, without being afraid and got on very well until she heard Mildred cry “I see the train”.
They immediately climbed down and the train rumbled by.
It was a narrow escape but she couldn’t forget the experience.
Helen spent almost every winter in the North after her first visit to Boston.
Once she went on a visit to a New England village and there she had her first experience of snowfall.
The earth seemed benumbed by its icy touch.
The grass and bushes were turned into icicles.
They all sat around the great fire and told merry tales to each other.
The snowfall stopped after three days.
Everything looked like figures in a marble freeze.
As the days passed on, the trees lost their ice covering and the bushes became bare once the sun shone brightly.
The favourite amusement during the winter was tobogganing.
They would get on their toboggan, somebody would shove them and they would swoop down the lake to the opposite bank.
It was great fun.
Helen spent almost every winter in the North after her first visit to Boston.
Once she went on a visit to a New England village and there she had her first experience of snowfall.
The earth seemed benumbed by its icy touch.
The grass and bushes were turned into icicles.
They all sat around the great fire and told merry tales to each other.
The snowfall stopped after three days.
Everything looked like figures in a marble freeze.
As the days passed on, the trees lost their ice covering and the bushes became bare once the sun shone brightly.
The favourite amusement during the winter was tobogganing.
They would get on their toboggan, somebody would shove them and they would swoop down the lake to the opposite bank.
It was great fun.
In this chapter Helen tells us how she learned to speak and what efforts she made for it.
It was in the spring of 1890 that Helen learned to speak though she had been practising it for months.
The impulse to produce audible sounds had always been strong within her.
She would put one hand on her throat and with the other hand she tried to feel the movements of her lips.
When she was in her mother’s lap, she would move her hand on her face to feel how her lips moved.
It gave her immense joy.
Before she lost her sight and hearing, she was fast learning to speak.
She also remembered the first word that she uttered was water.
She pronounced it ‘wa-wa’.
Then her illness snatched her sight and hearing.
Then with the help of Miss Sullivan she practiced to communicate by feeling letters with her fingers.
But she was not satisfied with it and was very eager to speak with her mouth.
At last her efforts bore fruit and she learned to speak in 1890.
In 1890, Mrs. Lamson, who had taught Laura Bridgman and had just returned from a visit to Norway and Sweden, came to meet her.
She told Helen how a blind and deaf girl of Norway named Ragnhild Kaata was taught to speak.
The story of Mrs. Lamson infused Helen with a new hope and she resolved that she would also learn to speak.
Her teacher, Miss Sullivan took her for advice and assistance to Miss Sarah Fuller.
The kind lady took upon herself the responsibility to teach her.
Thus, she began her education under the guidance of Miss.
Sarah Fuller in March 1890.
Since the teacher and the taught both were devoted to attain the single aim, they achieved success.
After a long practice, Helen pronounced the first sentence, it was warm.
How happy she was can only be imagined by the deaf and blind child who had uttered a word for the first time.
But, it must not be supposed that she could really speak as we speak.
She had learned only the elements of speech.
Only Miss Sullivan and Miss Sarah Fuller could understand what she uttered.
But most people would not have understood her for hours.
She was left only with one way and that was of practice.
She practised speaking for hours and Miss Sullivan always assisted her in her practice.
Sometimes she was weary and disappointed, but soon hope overcame dejection.
Besides the thought that a great and pleasant change was about to come in her life dispelled the dark clouds of despair in the same way as dew drops disappear on the emergence of the sun.
Finally, her efforts and the affection and devotion of her teachers forced fate to bow to her and Helen learned to speak.
Now she was impatient to show her achievements to her parents, sister and friends.
And, then came the day when Helen reached Tuscumbia Railway station where her parents, sister and friends were present to receive her.
The spring season, bloom, joviality, youthful prank and beauty all returned to their lives.
The doors to a new life had been opened to all.
Anne Frank, a courageous girl, was gifted a red and white checkered diary by her friend on her thirteenth birthday.
She named it Kitty and started writing her feelings and happenings around her as she never had a good friend.
Kitty turned to be her friend in which she confided everything.
Thus, it was a source of comfort and support to her.
Apart from Kitty she received many other gifts like a game, a bottle of grape juice and a blue blouse, a puzzle, a jar of cold cream, 2.50 guilders and a gift certificate, two books from her parents.
She celebrated her birthday in the school by sharing cookies with her teachers and her classmates.
They played volley-ball, danced around Anne in a circle and sang ‘Happy Birthday’.
Then she went home where her friends Ilse Wagner, Hanneli Goslar and Jacqueline van Maarsen were waiting for her.
They were called Anne, Hanne and Sanne by others.
Her friends presented her a beautiful book—Dutch Sagas and Legends.
A puzzle, a darling brooch and a book ‘Daisy goes to the Mountains’ were some of the other gifts presented by her aunts.
Anne celebrated her birthday party on Sunday afternoon.
She watched the Rin Tin Tin movie with her friends.
It was a big hit.
The list of Anne’s friends as written in her diary includes her classmates as well as boys.
Her best friend in her class was Jacqueline Van Maarsen but later she realized she never had a real friend and was mistaken about Jacqueline.
Anne had many friends.
Betty Bloemendaal looked kind of a poor girl as she lived in some obscure street in West Amsterdam and was a quiet girl.
D.Q.
was a nervous girl and the teachers always kept assigning her extra homework as punishment.
Henny Mets and Ilse Wagner were nice girls with cheerful dispositions.
E. S. talked too much whereas Hanneli Goslar was a shy girl—outspoken at home but reserved around other people J.R. was a detestable girl who thought she was grown up.
She was easily offended and burst into tears at the slightest thing.
There were a few nice girls also in the list -Nannie van Praag-Sigaar, Eefje de Jong and G.Z.
Among the boys there were some who admired her friends, some she regarded as funny, smart but there were others who were quite boring.
But the strange thing was that Anne did not have a true friend.
She needed a friend in whom she could confide but there was none.
Finally she decided to make ‘Kitty’ her friend and share her secrets with her.
Anne’s father, Otto Frank, was an adorable father.
He got married to Anne’s mother at the age of thirty-six.
Anne had an elder sister, Margot who was bom in 1926 and Anne was bom on June 29,1929.
They lived at Frankfurt till Anne was four years old.
Her father worked in a Dutch Opekta Company, which manufactured products used in making jam.
In 1933, her parents immigrated to Holland as her father had become the Managing Director of the company.
The daughters, Margot and Anne, were sent to stay with their grandmother at Aachen.
Anne was sent to a Montessori nursery school where she stayed till she was six.
Her teacher in the sixth grade was Mrs. Kuperus, the principal.
Both of them had grown a liking for each other and were in tears when Anne had to leave the school as she had been accepted at the Jewish Lyceum.
Life in Germany : Anne’s family lived a life full of anxieties as their relatives in Germany were suffering under Hitler’s anti-Jewish laws.
In 1938, her uncles (mother’s brothers) fled from Germany and took a safe refuge in North America whereas their elderly grandmother, aged seventy three came to live with them.
Trouble started for the Jews after May 1940 as a series of anti-Jewish decrees restricted their freedom.
According to the Germans, Jews were required to wear a yellow star, forbidden to use street-cars, not even own or ride them.. Their shopping time was fixed between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
There were so many restrictions but life went on.
Meanwhile Anne’s grandmother got sick and she died in January 1942.
Anne loved her very much and when Anne celebrated her birthday in 1942, grandma’s candle was lit with the others.
Anne and her five friends formed a club called ‘The Little Dipper Minus Two’.
They used to play a lot of ping pong.
After a lot of games of ping-pong they used to go to the nearest ice cream parlour that allowed Jews.
June 21,1942 made Anne a little nervous.
Actually, it was the day when they were worried about an upcoming meeting in the school in which the teachers would decide the promotion of students to the next grade.
Anne was a bit skeptical about Maths.
There were nine teachers in Anne’s school out of which seven were men.
Her Maths teacher, Mr. Keesing, had warned her several times as she talked too much.
One day, he assigned her an extra home work, an essay on ‘A Chatterbox’.
Anne jotted down the assignment and tried to stay quiet.
She decided to write an essay that had convincing arguments to prove the necessity of talking.
Mr. Keesing enjoyed the arguments but when she talked again in the class, she was assigned another topic ‘An incorrigible chatterbox’.
Then in the third class, the topic was ‘Quack
Quack Quack ‘ Anne had exhausted her ingenuity on the topic of chatterboxes.
So, she took the help of her friend
Sanne who was good at poetry.
They wrote the essay from beginning to end in verse.
It was a beautiful poem about a mother duck and father swan with three baby ducklings that were bitten to death by father for quacking too much.
Mr. Keesing took the joke in the right way and since then Anne had been allowed to talk and hadn’t been assigned any extra homework.
Since Jews were not allowed to make use of cars they used to walk wherever they went.
On June 24,1942 as Anne passed the bicycle racks, she heard her name being called.
When she turned around, she saw her friend Wilmas’ second cousin Hello Silberberg, standing there.
Anne was surprised and wasn’t sure what he wanted but still they walked together to school and it continued afterwards also.
On the way Hello told Anne about himself that he came from Gelsenkirchen and was living with his grandparents.
His parents were in Belgium.
He used to have a girlfriend named Ursula but later left her as he didn’t enjoy her company.
On Julyl, 1942, Hello told Anne that his grandmother wanted him to meet Ursul and not Anne but Anne could feel that Hello was in love with her and not Ursul.
Even Margot and Anne’s mother had developed a liking for Hello which Anne liked.
Though she knew in her heart that it was Peter and not Hello whom she loved.
Hello was just a friend or as her mother put it—a suitor.
After the results were decl’ared and Anne got her examination results.
Anne noticed that her father looked worried about something.
When she asked him, he told her that they had to go into hiding.
They had already started making preparations by sending their clothes, food and furniture to other people as they neither wanted their belongings to be seized by the Germans nor to be into their clutches.
Anne got scared.
On July 8,1942 Margot informed Anne that father had received a call-up notice from the SS.
The call-up notice brought the vision of concentration camps and lonely cells and that was frightening.
Another terrible jolt came when they realised that the call-up notice was not for Otto but for Margot.
After much discussion, it was decided to go into hiding even if it had to be a month earlier than what had been planned.
Margot and Anne started packing their belongings.
They packed everything from curler, handerkerchiefs to clothes, school bags and not to forget Anne’s diary.
Miep and Jan Gies helped them in shifting their baggage and finally at seven-thirty the family left for their hiding place.
They left the house in a mess to create an impression that they had left in a hurry.
Hiding Place: As the Jews were not allowed any conveyance, they walked in pouring rain to reach their hiding place, which was located in Otto’s office-building.
The office people- Mr. Kugler, Mr. Kleiman, Miep and Bep Voskuijl- all were informed of their coming.
Finally, they reached the building.
There was a large warehouse on the ground floor which was used as a workroom and a store room.
There was a stairway which led to the ‘Office’ – a very large and light room.
There was a kitchen with a hot water heater and two gas burners and a bathroom on the second floor.
A wooden staircase led to the third floor.
One of its doors led to the ‘Secret Annexe’ at the back of the house.
There were many doors behind that which led to a kitchen, a large spacious room, and a washroom.
After they arrived at 263, Prinsengracht.
Miep led them to their rooms which were full of the cardboard boxes which they had been shifting.
Anne and her father cleared most of it and turned it into a place of living.
They found the annexe to be an ideal and comfortable hiding place.
Otto plastered the walls with postcards, movie star collection, and pictures to make it look good.
Anne’s mother stitched curtains crookedly with unskilled fingers to hang on the windows and doors so that their neighbours might not hear or see them.
They loaded the place with strawberries and cherries.
They also had a supply of reading material, and decided to buy lots of games to keep themselves quiet so that the people downstairs could not hear them.
Life at the annexe was not comfortable.
Remaining indoors the whole day was quiet boring.
By this time Anne had a feeling that her mother did not like her.
She loved Margot more than Anne.
Though she praised her when she worked hard but she used to pick on her again after five minutes.
This was not the case with her father.
He liked her and always stood by her.
He came to her defence also when she required.
August 14,1942: August 14,1942 brought a change in the life of the Franks as Van Daans also shifted with them.
Germans had sent call-up notices to them also but they had no other option except hiding like the Franks.
Now there were seven of them- the Franks, Mrs. and Mr. Van Daan and Peter Van Daan, their son.
They wanted to know from Van Daans what had happened after they left their apartment.
Mr. Van Daan told them that their landlord Mr. Goldschmidt had called him and showed him the note that the Frank family had left behind and so he was planning to bring the cat.
While clearing the things, they found a notepad with an address in Maastricht written on it.
Mr. Van Daan somehow convinced him that they might have shifted to Maastricht.
September 2,1942 : Mrs. Van Daan had started behaving in a strange way.
She never wanted her house-hold things to be used in the daily routine and so started keeping them under lock and key.
Her son Peter was hypersensitive and lazy boy.
He did not have access to the books that Mr.
Vein Daan read as it was meant only for adults.
This had piqued Peter’s curiosity and he caught hold of one of the books.
When Mr. Van Daan came to know about it, there was a great feeling of quarrel between the two and Peter didn’t take his meals.
On the other hand Margot was allowed to read those books.
No restriction was imposed on her.
Anne’s mother was of the opinion that girls are more mature and hence should be allowed to read the books.
Life went on in the same monotonous way.
Every other day there was a quarrel or a hot discussion between Anne’s mother and Mrs. Van Daan.
There was no change at all.
Anne started reading some books.
She worked hard at French and crammed five irregular verbs.
She helped her father with Dutch lessons .Anne’s mother still scolded her and she grew a disliking towards her.
Sometimes she used to burst into tears.
There were hot discussions on petty topics like maids, which always ended with both of them in real bad moods.
Sometimes there were bickering between the two ladies but most of the time Anne’s mother had to step back as Mrs. Van Daan seemed to be bom debater.
While in hiding, these people faced another problem and that was of taking bath.
They used to wash themselves in a wash tub as there was no bath tub.
It was very inconvenient till one day Peter gave Anne the idea of taking bath in the spacious office bathroom.
Anne liked the idea as well as the place better than anything else.
On other days Anne used to think about the days when they would come out of their hiding.
On October 7,1942 she imagined herself in Switzerland where they had a beautiful house with beautiful new furniture.
She bought so many things when she went to the market as her father had given her 150 guilders.
But all this was a dream which never came true.
Life At The Jew Camp: On October 9,1942, Anne Frank noted that many of their J ewish friends and acquaintances were shifted to a big camp in Drenthe.
The Gestapo was treating all of them badly.
Miep told them that a person had managed to escape from there and informed that it was terrible at the camp.
The people got almost nothing to eat, much less to drink as water was available only one hour a day.
There was only one toilet and sink for thousand people.
It was quite depressing and dismal when Anne heard about it.
Anne continued her studies during her stay at the secret annexe.
On October 14,1942, she translated a chapter, wrote down some vocabulary words, worked on maths problems and also translated three pages of French Grammar.
She had started working at short-hand also which she used to enjoy.
She read a lot of Komer plays like Hedwig, The cousin, From Bremer, The Governess, The Green Domino, etc.
By now, her relationship with her mother had also improved and Margot and Anne exchanged their diaries with each other to read.
The most frightening thing that happened on October 20,1942 was that a carpenter had come that day to fill the five fire extinguishers in the building.
The office staff forgot to inform them.
But somehow Anne could make it when she heard the hammering on the landing.
She informed others about it.
Anne and her father stationed themselves at the door so they could hear when the man had left.
After about fifteen minutes, the carpenter put his hammer and some other tools on the bookcase (or so they thought) and banged on the door.
They turned white with fear presuming that someone had got suspicious about someone living in that place.
The knocking, pulling, pushing and jerking at the door continued for some time.
Anne fainted out of fear that someone had discovered their wonderful hiding place.
It was only after they heard Mr. Kleiman’s voice saying, ‘Open up, it’s me’ that they all heaved a sigh of relief.
They opened the door at once.
Actually, the hook fastening the book case (against the door) had got stuck.
The carpenter had left after finishing his work and at the same time Mr. Kleiman arrived to get Bep but he couldn’t open the bookcase.
For Anne, it was a terrible day as she imagined a giant, the crudest fascist in the world, was trying to get inside the secret annexe.
But everyone soon got over it and life returned to its previous tone.
On October 29,1942 they got the information that the furniture had been removed from van Daan’s apartment but they didn’t inform Mrs. Van Daan as she already had grown nervous the last few days.
Anne spent most of the time reading books written by well known German authors.
Her mother also gave her a prayer book to read.
She read them but wondered why mother wanted her to be religious and devout.
Mr. Frank became ill, but the family could not call a doctor.
That weekend, Bep Voskuijl, another worker in Mr. Frank’s office, stayed in the annexe.
Anne was not happy with her mother as she found something or the other to scold Anne.
She never passed any judgement on Margot but always found faults in whatever Anne did.
Perhaps that was the reason Anne turned to her diary and confided in it.
Mr. Frank recovered from his illness, and Peter turned sixteen on 9 November 1942.
The residents of the annexe also agreed to take in an eighth person, and Anne was quite excited at the prospect of a new addition.
The new entrant was Albert Dussel, a dentist who was married to a Christian woman.
Mr. Dussel was excited when Miep informed him of the hiding place, but he asked for some time to put his accounts in order and treat some patients.
Mr. Dussel met Mr. Kleiman at an appointed time, and Miep then led him to the annexe.
Mr. Dussel was surprised when he met the Frank family because he had heard they were in Belgium.
The van Daans gave Mr. Dussel a list of rules when he arrived.
He shared a room with Anne and told her about the shocking things happening outside, including the murders of women and children.
Anne thought herself to be lucky to be in hiding, and she thought of the suffering her friends must undergo merely because they were Jewish.
Anne was very upset by the news, but she decided that she could not spend all her time crying.
The loneliness of the attic made her feel bad.
Anne started having a feeling that Mr. Dussel was a strict disciplinarian.
Meanwhile, it was time for the celebrations of Hanukkah and St. Nicholas Day which fell on almost the same day.
They lighted the Hanukkah candles for only ten minutes as the candles were in short supply.
For St. Nicholas Day, father hid a basket filled with presents and a mask of Black Peter in a cabinet.
Van Daan made sausages to preserve the meat they had bought.
Mr. Dussel started a dental practice in the annexe and tried to fix Mrs. van Daan’s cavities.
Anne got tired of Mrs. van Daan’s incessant complaints and was annoyed that Mr. Dussel constantly told her to be quiet at night.
Mr. Kugler brought the residents gravy packets to fill because there was no one else to do the job.
According to Anne, however, it was a prisoner’s job.
Meanwhile so much was happening outside.
Jews were being taken from their homes and separated from their families, and non-Jewish children were wandering the streets in hunger.
Both Christians and Jews wanted the war to end, and she believed that her family was better off than people outside the annexe.
Anne realised that everyone was always yelling at her and calling her ‘exasperating’.
Mr. Frank thought the war would end soon, but the level of anxiety in the annexe increased.
Anne got frightened by the sound of gunfire one night and crawled into her father’s bed for comfort.
Another night, Peter also climbed up into the loft and a rat bit his arm.
The residents got frightened when they heard the sound of burglars in the building.
Later, the residents heard a radio announcement that all Jews must be deported from Utrecht and the other provinces of the Netherlands by the beginning of July.
Mr. Dussel received a package for his birthday from his wife.
Anne noticed that Mr. Dussel did not share his personal food with the other residents or the Dutch helpers.
Anne felt that her family was better off than the vast majority of Jews.
She predicted that they would look back and wonder how they lived for so long under such difficult conditions.
Mr. van Daan believed that the war would end in 1943.
On Anne’s fourteenth birthday, her father wrote a poem for her, and Margot translated it from German to Dutch.
Mr. Voskuijl did not feel well and was diagnosed with cancer and knew he did not have long to live.
Anne decided that she would not learn shorthand anymore as she was becoming nearsighted and reading glasses could not be arranged.
The group briefly considered sending her out to an ophthalmologist, but Mr. Frank had heard that the British had landed in Sicily, and so the war would end soon.
There was another break-in at the office, and this time the robbers took cash and ration coupons for sugar.
Anne thought she would be overjoyed when the war would end as she wanted to go back to school again.
Two air-raid sirens sounded in one day as bombs fell relentlessly on Amsterdam.
The residents of the annexe got scared, but Anne tried to be brave.
They heard the good news that Benito Mussolini, Italy’s fascist leader, had been deposed.
Italy surrendered unconditionally, but Anne’s happiness was tampered by the news that Mr. Kleiman had to undergo a stomach surgery.
She was worried that Mr. Van Maaren, a man who worked in the warehouse and was not trustworthy, would find out about the hiding place.
Anne sometimes used to get frustrated and depression started building in.
Anne compared herself to a bird with broken wings, longing for fresh air and sunshine.
Margot decided to take a correspondence course in Latin to overcome her boredom, but Anne found it too difficult.
Mr. Frank asked Mr. Kleiman for a children’s Bible so that Anne could learn about the New Testament.
Anne was constantly afraid of being discovered, and compared the eight residents to a patch of blue sky surrounded by dark clouds.
The clouds were setting in, and they could see both the destruction below them and the peace above them.
Anne had a fountain pen which she valued highly.
She got it when she was nine years old.
It had come from her grandmother in a red leather case.
When she was ten she took the pen to school and her teachers allowed her to use it.
At the age of twelve it was given a new case in honour of the day she started at the Jewish lyceum.
When she turned thirteen she took the pen to the annexe along with her and now that when she was fourteen it was enjoying its last year.
One Friday afternoon, as Anne was busy in rubbing beans, she swept the floor and threw die dust in the stove.
When she went back to her seat she found her pen missing.
Everyone looked for it but all in vain.
Next day, the remains of the pen were found when Mr. Frank emptied the stove.
There was no trace of the gold nib.
Anne was left with one consolation that at least her pen had been cremated just as she would be some day.
Bep had diphtheria and she was not allowed to come in contact with any of them for six weeks.
It was very difficult to manage without her.
Mr. Kleiman was still in bed and had taken only gruel for three weeks.
Mr. Kugler was busy upto his neck in work.
Margot started sending Latin lessons to a teacher under the registered name of Bep.
The teacher corrected and sent them back.
Mr. Dussel was in a state of confusion as Mrs. Van Daan wanted a treat from him on his first anniversary in the annexe.
Anne had a vision of Hanneli in her dreams.
She saw her thin and worn wearing rags.
She looked at her with sadness as if she wanted to ask why Anne had deserted her.
Anne felt guilty for not having thought of her for month in fact she had not forgotten her.
She felt helpless as she could not do anything for Hanneli.
It was again time to celebrate St. Nicholas Day but this time they could not celebrate it like last year so, Mr. Frank and Anne decided to write a verse for each person.
Anne removed the note at quarter to eight from the big laundry basket and read it aloud.
She then asked them to look into the basket for his or her shoe.
There was a roar of laughter as everyone took out the shoe because inside each shoe was a little wrapped package addressed to its owner.
Anne was not well as she suffered from flu.
She had a bad cough and had to duck under the blanket to try to keep from coughing.
They were scared of somebody listening to the coughing.
She was given all sorts of treatments to subside her coughing.
Bep was still not well but her sister was a bit better.
Everyone got something or the other for Flanukkah.
The weather was drizzly and overcast and their spirits were low as there was no sign of the war to end.
Anne and other residents were quite moody during their stay at he annexe.
Sometimes they felt ‘on top of the world’ and at other times ‘in tjie depths of despair’.
Sometimes she used to feel herself fortunate as compared to other Jewish children.
She wished to be out in the fresh air, longed to ride a bike, dance, whistle and feel that she was free.
She often missed having a mother who took her seriously.
Anne received the Christmas present.
Miep had made a delicious Christmas cake with ‘peace 1944’ written on top.
Bep provided a batch of cookies.
There was a jar of yogurt for Peter, Margot and Anne and a bottle of beer for each of the adults.
Anne again dreamt of grandmother and Hanneli.
She thought about her grandma who was so loyal and good.
She would never let any of her grandchildren down.
She always stuck up for Anne despite her misbehaviour.
When she thought of Hanneli she called herself selfish and coward and thanked God for giving her so much which she didn’t even deserve.
There were fewer squabbles in the annexe.
Sometimes it was there but only because of food and that too because of the ridiculous ideas of Mrs. Van Daan.
For the last few months they had been splitting up the meat, the soup, the potatoes and this time it was the fry potatoes.
Anne wished they could split up completely.
Anne went through her diary as she had nothing to do and found that she had shown negative feelings towards her mother.
She was shocked and started wondering why she had written such things in her diary.
Then she cleared her conscience by telling herself that it was only because her mother did not understand her and she also did not try to be one with her feelings.
But that period was now over.
Anne had grown wiser and mother steadier.
She stopped retaliating against her mother and tried to think better words to write unpleasant words on paper rather than on her mother’s heart.
Anne realised that her mother tried to be friendly with her whereas she wanted her to be a typical mother tactful and gentle.
Once, Anne had gone to a dentist along with her mother and Margot.
When the dentist job was over, her mother told her to go back while she and Margot decided to shop.
Anne didn’t like the idea as she also wanted to go for shopping.
The reason for sending her back was that she had her bike with her.
Anne got so annoyed that she rebuked them publicly.
Another thing which she confessed in her diary was her becoming consciousness of the changes that were taking place in her body as well as her mind.
Her periods had started and she wanted to have a girl-friend to share her secrets.
Anne liked to have a friend and she decided to select Peter for this role.
Once she went to his room but she didn’t gather the courage to talk to him in a friendly way.
She came back to her room and cried a lot.
That night she had a dream in which she saw herself with Peter-Peter Schiff.
When she woke up she could still feel his cheek against her and staring into her eyes.
She had earlier dreamt of her granny (paternal grandmother) grandma (maternal grandmother) and Hanneli but this time it was Peter.
His mental image was so clear that she didn’t need photograph of him.
Anne recollects how she was in love with Sally’s cousin – Appy.
But later she realized that she had an out-and- out crush on Peter.
They used to go together through their neighbourhood the whole summer.
Years went by and Peter started meeting other girls arousing Anne’s jealousy towards those girls.
The older she grew, the more she loved Peter.
She used to do nothing else but think about Peter.
Bep, Miep and Jan fell ill. Bep had a bad cold whereas, the other two had upset stomachs.
Anne kept herself busy practising dance steps every evening.
Everyone in the annexe was interested in reading a book ‘A Cloudless Morning’ which dealt with a number of adolescent problems.
Margot had got nicer feelings and started becoming a nice friend.
On the other hand Anne’s mother believed that there was no mother like her who had such a good relationship and understanding of her daughters.
Anne thought she was wrong.
She kept on thinking about Peter most of the time.
The annexe residents had divided many things like meat, fats and oils.
They were trying their own potatoes.
The relationships had a change.
Mother’s birthday was approaching.
She had received some extra sugar from Mr. Kugler which made Van Daans jealous of her as Mrs. van Daan had not received such kind of courtesy from anyone.
Anne kept dreaming about Peter and her dreams were less vivid now.
She used to be jealous of Margot’s relationship with father but gradually this emotion was weakening.
Of course, she still felt hurt when her father used to be unreasonable towards her but she longed for his affection, hugs and kisses.
Her mother received a real mocha cafe, prewar quality from the office and it was a nice day.
Anne found a change in her attitude.
She started looking towards the petty quarrels with the Van Daans in a different way.
She felt that they were not entirely to blame.
The fault was on their part also.
According to her ‘intelligent people’ (such as ourselves) should have more insight into how to deal with others.
Mother should not have been very hard on van Daans.
A strange thing had happened.
She could feel that people talk about sex in a secretive or disgusting manner.
Even mother told Anne not to discuss sex with anyone especially boys and “if they bring it up, don’t answer them”.
She was learning something about the sex from either books or things she picked up in conversations.
Mrs. van Daan never discussed this topic with Peter.
No one knew how much information did Peter have on this topic but one day, after a discussion whether Boche was a tomcat or a cat, Peter took Anne downstairs and showed her the sexual organ to confirm that it was a male cat.
They had more discussions on this topic but Anne felt that she could discuss the topic normally with Peter, without craddng jokes.
Anne developed a great liking for family trees.
She spent her Sundays sorting out and looking over movie-star collection.
Every Monday Mr. Kugler brought her a copy of ‘Cinema and Theatre’ magazine.
Others felt that it was a sheer waste of money but Anne’s knowledge about films and film stars had increased after reading the magazine.
She started doing new hair styles.
But after getting so many remarks from others she used to restore her hair to their normal mass of curls.
Anne’s mother and Mrs. Van Daan discussed about their childhood quite often and Anne found it very boring.
Jan and Mr. Kleiman loved talking about people who had gone underground or into hiding which had become a routine.
There were many resistance groups such as free Netherlands, that forget their identity cards, provided financial support to those in hiding, organised hiding places and found work for those young Christians who went underground.
Anne felt amazed at the generosity and unselfishness of those people who risked their own lives to help and save others.
Other bizarre stories were also making the rounds, e.g., Mr. Kleiman reported of a soccer match held in the province of Gelderland and new registration cards had been issued in Hilversum.
It was a Sunday and Anne found it boring as usual.
She went downstairs in the dark all by herself.
She stood at the top of the stairs while German planes flew back and forth.
She was not afraid.
She looked up at the sky and trusted in God.
All she wanted to do was scream “Let me be, leave me alone”.
Everywhere, there was talk of inversion.
Newspapers were full of invasion news and talks like ‘Germans will do what they can to defend the country, even flooding it, if necessary’ was driving people crazy.
People were trying to find ways out if confronted with such situation.
There were arguments about going hungry, dying, bombs, fire extinguishers, sleeping bags, I-cards, poison gas, etc., but all of them were not pleasant.
Anne was the only person who remained calm throughout the discussion.
She just hoped that everything would be all right in the end.
Anne had another row with her mother.
Actually, something had pricked Margot while she was tucking herself in the wool blanket when they tried to find out, they found it was a pin left by their mother.
When mother was informed about it, she got annoyed and criticized Anne for being careless many times.
It was a good day.
The shining sun, the deep blue sky, the magnificent breeze, all made Anne long for conversation, freedom, friends, even being alone.
She was in a state of utter confusion as she didn’t know what to read, what to write and what to do.
Anne felt Peter glancing at her most of the time.
He had an argument with Mr. Dussel when he was fidgeting with the knobs of the radio and wanted to share it with someone.
He found Anne to be the right person who would not tell anyone about it and told her everything.
Anne listened intently and felt that he was the person with whom she could have a strong feeling of fellowship.
Mr. Dussel told Anne’s mother that Peter had apologised to him.
Anne was surprised at this.
She cleared it with Peter who told her that Mr. Dussel had been lying.
That evening Mr. Van Daan and Peter snubbed Mr. Dussel and said they never wanted to speak again to each other.
Peter had a dental appointment that day.
It was Margot’s birthday.
She wanted to make Margot feel special, so she thought of making coffee and potatoes for her.
She went to the attic to collect some potatoes and Peter helped her.
Then she spent some time with Peter who told her that he had an inferiority complex and would never tell anyone after the war that he was a Jew.
Anne didn’t like the dishonesty in him.
But Anne could make out that he needed affection.
That was the reason he hugged Nouschi so tightly.
Anne read the stories written by her ‘Evas Dream’ and ‘The Secret Annexe’ to Mr. Van Daan.
Peter also came there and Anne made him read the part where Cady and Haws talked about God.
She told him that she wanted him to see that she did not write amusing stories only.
Anne started going to Peter’s room frequently.
Her mother didn’t approve of it and always told her not to bother him.
She sometimes looked in an odd way at her when she came out of his room.
Anne hated her for this.
Anne longed for Peter all the time.
Sometimes she felt like crying and then comforting herself on his shoulder.
She went twice upstairs but didn’t get any chance to meet him as he was not in his room.
She ran to the washroom and cried a lot.
Then she realised that she would never reach Peter in that way.
She thought that he might not be interested in her.
This thought brought more tears in her eyes and it was quite disappointing to have felt that way.
There was not much difference between the routine of people who were not in hiding and the people living in the annexe except that what they did during the rest of the week happened on Sunday in the annexe, getting up, lighting the stove, washing, cleaning, breakfast, washing up the dishes and laundry were the normal chores.
The weather had turned pleasant.
Anne and Peter went to the attic to enjoy the natural breath.
They could see the blue sky, chesmot tree, seagulls and other birds and were so rapt in the beauty that they were unable to speak.
Anne realised that the best remedy for those who are frightened, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, where they can be alone with the sky, nature and God.
It would bring comfort to them.
They had been missing so many things at the internal level.
Anne also longed for freedom and fresh air like Peter.
Anne thought about Peter only.
She felt that both of them were struggling with their innermost feelings.
Both their mothers have no motherly understanding and treated them badly.
Anne couldn’t help herself imagining Peter in front of her eyes all the time.
It seemed that Peter Schiff and Peter Van Daan had melted into one Peter.
All she wanted was to spend maximum time with Peter.
According to Anne, she had grown sentimental and foolish.
Another burglary attempt took place.
Mr. Van Daan found both the glass door and the office door open.
On moving ahead he found even the doors above open.
He checked everything and when he found that nothing was missing he went off to sleep..
But next morning Peter found the front door open and the projector and Mr. Kugler’s new briefcase had disappeared from the closet.
They could make out that it was another case of burglary.
The only explanation was that the burglar must have had a duplicate key since there were no signs of a forced entry.
Bep shared her inner feelings of dejection and depression with the two ladies-Mrs. Van Daan and Anne’s mother and wanted some help from them to come out of that situation.
Anne’s mother told her to think of all other people in the world who had been suffering.
Anne got annoyed.
She felt how could grown up be stupid and foolish.
She wanted to tell Bep something but she could not.
She talked to Peter in the afternoon.
Even he had something in his mind which he wanted to share with someone.
Anne started having a feeling that her love for Peter was growing.
She again went to the attic to bring potatoes.
On the way back, she met Peter and sat talking with him for next one hour.
Peter asked him ‘In love’ and she replied “Why should I be in love ?” But deep within her even she knew that she was in love with Peter.
It seemed crazy to talk about Peter.
It gave her happiness.
Normally, Saturday used to be very boring and dull for Anne but this Saturday her father had a conversation with her in French, and then he read out from Dickens.
After having finished the lesson she went downstairs and found Peter waiting for her.
She liked it; they talked for almost an hour.
Anne wondered whether Peter was also in love with her.
Mrs. Van Daan asked what was going on between the two of them but she didn’t say anything.
At one moment Anne protested “I take that as an insult” still, it was only Peter she thought about.
Van Daans scolded Peter for petty things and Anne disliked this because she felt a feeling of responsibility toWards him.
Anne realised that Peter had no friend in whom he could confide.
She wanted to be with him to take away his loneliness.
She kept hoping to discover that he was dying to see her and then he would be able to express his feelings to her.
Anne thought about her schooldays and she felt them to be unreal; she had many friends and admirers.
Even Peter said “You were always the centre of attraction”.
But now there was a drastic change in her.
She wanted friends, not admirers.
She wanted to be friendly with people who respected her for her character and her deeds and not her flattering smile.
That’s why she didn’t miss the schooldays.
She looked back at her life of 1943 which brought crying spells and loneliness for her but they brought the gradual realization of her faults and shortcomings as well.
The second half of 1943 was a bit better.
She had became a teenager but was treated more like a grown up.
She wanted to change herself, she didn’t want to be with her mother.
New year brought another change.
She longed for boyfriend and this brought a difference between Anne and her mother.
Margot and Anne wrote notes for each other.
Anne dreamed of Peter.
In one of her dreams she saw Peter giving her a kiss but telling her that he didn’t love her.
In another dream she found Peter telling her that she was flirting and she told Peter that she was not.
She was glad when she woke up that it was only a dream and not a reality.
In one of her dreams, she dreamt they were kissing each other and realized that Peter had the cheeks of a man who shaved; they were not soft.
10th March was not a good day.
Miep caught cold.
Mr. Kleiman had not recovered from his illness.
The man who used to supply them potatoes got arrested.
Someone scared them by knocking on the wall next door.
So, many things happened which made Anne feel sad and dejected.
She did not want to do anything not even write the diary pages.
She met Peter and they talked and chatted for half an hour in the afternoon.
Anne’s desire to be with Peter kept on increasing.
She always wanted to be with him, to talk to him.
But she was afraid of being a nuisance.
Peter had told her that at one time he used to take her as a pain in the neck and according to Anne she also felt the same but the situation had changed now.
She wanted both of them to be the best of friends.
Peter was acting as if he had been annoyed with Anne and it was becoming unbearable for Anne.
She used to have the hardest time trying to maintain a normal appearance when she was feeling sad and miserable.
She wanted to go outside and talk to someone and sometimes she just wished to be alone.
The news from the outside world had made her condition worse.
Margot sometimes asked her but she didn’t confide in her.
The people who supplied them food coupons got arrested and there were only five blackmarket ration cards with no coupons, no food and no oils.
Since Miep and Mr. Kleiman were sick again it was difficult for Bep to manage the shopping.
Now their lunch was washed potatoes and pickled kale.
The whole house smelt of them.
Mr. Van Daan was irritated as well as annoyed.
Mr. Van Daan wanted to smoke only.
Mr. Frank wanted to stay calm and quiet whereas Mr. Dussel had to complete his assignment.
Bep was down with a bad cold.
Mr. Kleiman’s stomach bled so much that he lost consciousness.
They wanted Mr. Keiman to go to a reliable doctor to get a medical certificate of ill health.
Doctors attended even serious patients on telephone as there was a long line of patients.
Anne had started resenting the idea of sharing a room with Mr. Alfred Dussel whereas Peter had a room of his own.
She didn’t like the idea of not talking to Peter.
She wanted to share her inner thoughts with him.
The story begins when, Mr Hiram B. Otis, the American Minister purchases Canterville Chase ignoring the warnings of Lord Canterville and other native residents of the place.
Lord Canterville sells it to Mr Otis and tells him that the place is haunted by ghosts and supernatural beings.
The Otis family includes Mr and Mrs Otis, their daughter Virginia, twin boys and their eldest son Washington.
The family does not believe in the existence of ghosts.
The American Minister says, “I will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation …… I reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in Europe, we’d have it at home in a very short time in one of our public museums or on the road as a show.” Mrs Otis sees a dull red stain on the floor by the fireplace and asks Mrs Umney about its significance.
She says that “blood has been split on that spot.
But Washington Otis says, “That is all nonsense” and he also says that “Pinkerton’s Champion Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent will clean it up in no time”.
In the second chapter Washington changes his opinion when he finds the stain of blood again on the floor.
He says, “…… for I have tried it with everything.
It must be the ghost.” The family hears clanking chains.
They witness reappearing blood stains.
They also see peculiar apparitions in various distorted forms.
But, surprisingly and humorously, they are not scared.
The United States Minister says, “I have no wish to do the ghost any personal injury …… Upon the other hand if he really declines to use the Rising Sun Lubricator, we shall have to take his chains from him”.
The ghost of Sir Simon appears before the family time and again.
He changes his appearance every time but fails to frighten any member of the family.
Sir Simon is humiliated and tortured by the family.
The ghost receives the last blow on 19 September.
Sir Simon vanishes into the great iron stove and reaches his room in a terrible state of dirt, disorder and despair.
After this incident he is nowhere to be seen again on any nocturnal expedition.
Mr Otis writes a letter to Lord Canterville informing him that the ghost of Sir Simon has left the house.
The ghost desires to appear before Virginia’s lover and terrify him.
But his terror of the twins confines him to his room.
One day Virginia observes the ghost sitting in his room.
He feels depressed and lonely.
Virginia innocently interacts with him and asks him to behave properly.
The ghost tells her that “I must rattle my chains, and groan through keyholes and walk about at night, if that is what you mean.
It is my only reason for existing”.
The ghost tells the reason of killing his wife to Virginia.
Virginia accuses him of being rude, horrid, vulgar and dishonest.
She gives the ghost an offer and says “… the best thing you can do is to emigrate and improve your mind”.
He tells her that “I have not slept for three hundred years”.
He entices her to accompany him so that he may get rid of the present form.
She follows him and leaves the Tapestry Chamber.
Mrs Otis feels disturbed and perturbed when she does not find Virginia at home.
She becomes agitated and annoyed.
She is searched everywhere.
They eat a melancholy meal.
They keep mum and even the twins are awestruck because they are fond of their sister.
They fail to find Virginia.
When the last stroke sounds they hear a crash and a sudden shrill cry.
Virginia, suddenly appears before the family.
Mr Otis asks her about her whereabouts.
She tells them that “I have been with the ghost.
He is dead and you must come and see him.
He had been very wicked, but he was really sorry for all that he had done, and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died”.
The whole family looks at her in mute amazement.
Lord Canterville is the chief mourner and sits in the first carriage with Virginia at the funeral of Sir Simon.
Mr Otis requests Lord Canterville to accept the box of jewels but he refuses.
Virginia is married to her boy-lover.
Sir Simon’s tombstone is built and it is decided to engrave on it simply the initials of the old gentleman’s name and the verse from the library window.
Virginia feels that Sir Simon made her realize “What life is, and what death signifies, and why love is stronger than both”.
Purchasing Canterville Chase: At the onset, Horace B. Otis, the brusque American Minister, ignores the warnings of several English friends and buys the haunted Canterville Chase.
Lord Canterville desires to sell the home but feels that it is his moral duty to tell Otis stories of skeleton hands and mysterious noises.
However, Otis refuses to believe in the existence of ghosts.
He avers, “I will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation.” He is desirous of keeping the ghost in one of their public museums.
The Persistent Blood Stain: The Otis family moves into the Chase, a Tudor mansion.
Mrs. Otis, perturbed by a blood stain in the sitting-room, orders that it be removed at once.
But the housekeeper, Mrs. Umney, explains that the blood stain dates back to 1575, the day Lady Eleanore de Canterville was murdered by her husband, Sir Simon, and cannot be removed.
Washington Otis, the eldest son, quickly declares that Pinkerton’s Champion Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent will prove a match for even so historic a stain.
Before the housekeeper can stop him, Washington drops to his knees and scrubs out the blood.
Thunder and lightening greet his success, and Mrs. Umney faints in fear.
The weather becomes monstrous and Mr Otis feels that the old country is so overpopulated that they have not enough decent weather for everybody.
He opines, “Emigration is the only thing for England.” Ms Umney regains her consciousness.
She is extremely upset and warns Mr Otis to beware of the impending disaster.
She also tells the family that she has been a witness to horrible and mysterious incidents, which can terrify any human being.
But Mr and Mrs Otis assure her that they are not afraid of ghosts.
The Ghost Appears: The second chapter starts with Washington’s realisation that there is a ghost in the house.
The reappearance of the blood stain on the floor in the library constrains Washington to say that “I have tried it with everything.
It must be the ghost”.
Each successive morning brings a new stain, and the Otises begin to believe that the Chase really is haunted.
Mr Otis also begins to suspect that “he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the existence of ghosts.” Mrs Otis intends to join the Psychical Society.
Several nights later, Mr. Otis awakes to the sound of clanking metal.
In the hallway, he encounters a ghost with burning-red eyes, matted hair, and heavy chains.
As a practical American, Mr. Otis suggests to the Ghost that Tammany Rising Sun Lubricator will quiet his chains.
The Ghost, stunned by this effrontery, is further insulted as the young Otis twin boys throw pillows at his head.
The Ghost retires to his chamber and ponders his past glories of terrifying housemaids and driving members of the aristocracy to madness and suicide.
He recollects his glorious and uninterrupted career of three hundred years.
He remembers Dowager Duchess, Sir William Gull and Lady Stutfield.
These characters become the victim of the horrible appearance of the ghost.
He feels annoyed and determines to have vengeance.
He decides to trouble the modern Americans.
Discussion about the Ghost at the Dinning Table: The ghost’s presence in the house is discussed at breakfast.
The United States Minister is a little annoyed.
He does not want to do the ghost any personal injury.
He also criticises the act of throwing pillows at the ghost.
But he says that “if he really declines to use the Rising Sun Lubricator, we shall have to take his chains from him.
It would be quite impossible to sleep, with such a noise going on outside the bedrooms.”
The Second Appearance of the Ghost: The ghost again appears before the American family on Sunday night.
The members of the family hear a terrible crash in the hall.
They find that a large suit of old armour has become detached from its stand.
It has fallen on the stone floor.
They also observe the Canterville Ghost seated in a high-backed chair.
He is rubbing his knees with an expression of acute agony on his face.
The twins discharges two pallets on the ghost and the United States Minister covers him with the revolver.
The ghost is terrified and goes through them like a mist.
On reaching the top of the staircase he recovers himself, and laughs his most horrible laugh.
Mrs Otis comes out in a light blue dressing gown.
She says, “I am afraid you are far from well, and have brought you a bottle of Doctor Dobell’s tincture.” The ghost looks at her in anger and begins to make preparations for turning himself into a large black dog.
But he hears the sound of the approaching footsteps.
The twins comes up to him.
So, he satisfies himself with becoming faintly phosphorescent and vanishes with a deep growl.
The Third Visit of the Ghost: The ghost does not come out of his room or some days after his second visit.
He decides to make a third attempt to frighten the United States Minister and his family.
He plans to enter Washington’s room stealthily.
He decides to gibber at him from the foot of the bed and stab himself three times in the throat.
He bears a special grudge against Washington because he is habitual of removing his bloodstain from the floor.
He is determined to teach the twins a lesson.
The Canterville Ghost is terrified by an image on that day.
The head of the image is bald and burnished.
Its face is round, fat and white.
From the eyes of this image come rays of scarlet light.
The mouth is a wide well of fire.
The ghost is terribly frightened to see such a hideous figure.
The Canterville Ghost wishes to talk to that figure.
He feels surprised to see that something has obviously happened to the spectre.
The light has entirely faded from its eyes and the gleaming falchion has fallen from its hand.
He desires to get hold of it.
But the head of the figure slips off and falls on the ground.
The twins horrify him again with the help of the image.
The Ghost’s Predicament: The Canterville Ghost feels exhausted and tired.
His nerves are completely shattered.
He decides to give up the idea of the bloodstain on the library floor.
He conceives, “If the Otis family did not want it, they clearly did not deserve it.” The ghost’s problem is to discharge his duties as a supernatural being.
It is his solemn duty to appear in the corridor once a week and to gibber from the large oriel window on the first and third Wednesdays of the month.
He has no idea how he could ignore his obligations.
It is true that his life has been very evil, but he is most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural.
He behaves and acts as per the nature of a supernatural being.
o The Ghost’s Severe Fall: The Canterville Ghost does not intend to disturb the American family.
He enters Mr Otis’s bedroom and carries off the bottle.
He feels humiliated but he knows the bare fact that he does not have the knack to frighten the American family.
On one occasion he meets with a severe fall because he treads on a butter-slide.
The twins construct it from the entrance of the Tapestry Chamber to the top of the oak staircase.
He fails to tolerate this insult and decides to make one final effort to maintain his final dignity and social position.
So, he decides to scare the twins in his celebrated character of Reckless Rupert, or the Headless Earl.
O Another Scheme of Avenging his Humiliation: The Canterville Ghost is pleased to see himself in the disguise of the Headless Earl.
He spends three hours to make his preparations.
He glides out of the wainscoting and creeps down the corridor.
He wishes to enter the room of the wins.
He finds the door just ajar.
To make his entrance horrible, he opens the door with jerk.
Suddenly a heavy jug of water falls on him.
He becomes wet.
The jug misses his left shoulder by a couple of inches.
He also hears the shrieks of laughter.
He gets dejected and frustrated.
He leaves no stone unturned to scare them but all in vain.
The Ghost’s Retreat: The ghost does not intend to frighten the family.
He gives up all hope to scare them.
So, he satisfies himself with creeping in the passages in list slippers.
He receives a final blow on 19 September.
He goes downstairs to the great entrance hall.
He feels that he will not be heard or seen by anyone there.
He amuses himself by making satirical remarks on the photographs of the United States Minister and his wife.
He is simply but neatly clad in long shrouds.
Suddenly two figures attack him and wave their arms wildly above their heads and shout “BOO” in his ear.
He gets afraid of them and runs towards the staircase.
He meets Washington Otis there with the big garden syringe.
The ghost vanishes into the great iron stove and reaches his room in the state of despair.
Virginia’s Confrontation with the Ghost: Virginia finds the door of the Tapestry Chamber open.
She enters the room and finds the ghost sitting in a state of dejection.
She consoles him and asks him to mend his ways.
He says that the reason of his existence is to rattle his chains, groan through keyholes and walk about the night.
He tells her the reason of killing his wife.
Virginia suggests him to emigrate and improve his mind.
Her father will assist him as the officers are all Democrats.
Virginia’s Disappearance: The ghost entices Virginia to accompany him to the Garden of Death.
He requests her to weep with him for his sins and pray to the angel of death to have mercy on him.
He feels guilty.
Virginia is an emotional girl.
She is compassionate and pure.
She goes with him and disappears from the room.
Virginia’s Search: Mrs Otis does not find Virginia in her room.
She gets annoyed and asks everyone to search her.
The police inspectors of the county are also informed.
Mr Otis thinks that she might be with the gypsies.
But she is not found with them.
The gypsies are also distressed at hearing of Virginia’s disappearance.
The whole family is in grief.
Virginia’s Return: Virginia returns suddenly with a casket in her hand.
She tells her family that she has been with the ghost.
She also announces that the ghost is dead now.
She says, “He is dead, and you must come and see him.
He had been very wicked, but he was really sorry for all that he had done, and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died.” The whole family is astounded and amazed.
She takes them through the opening of the wainscoting down a narrow secret door.
They find a skeleton stretched out at full length on the stone floor.
Virginia says that God has forgiven him for his sins.
The Ghost’s Funeral: The ghost’s funeral starts from Canterville Chase.
The hearse is drawn by eight black horses, each of which carries on its head a great tuft of nodding ostrichplums and the leaden coffin is covered by a rich purple pall.
The whole procession is very impressive.
Lord Canterville is the chief mourner and sits in the first carriage along with little Virginia.
They are followed by the United States Minister and his wife.
Washington and the three boys also join the funeral.
Mrs Umney is in the last carriage.
Lord Canterville Refuses to Accept the Jewels: Mr Otis requests Lord Canterville to accept the jewels given by the ghost to Virginia.
But he refuses to accept them.
He says, “… your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky ancestor a very important service and I and my family are much indebted to her for her marvelous courage and pluck.
The jewels are clearly hers….” He also reminds Mr Otis that “you took the furniture and the ghost at a valuation and anything that belonged to the ghost passed at once into your possession.”
Virginia Learns a Lesson: Virginia helps the ghost in attaining salvation.
The Canterville Ghost is forgiven by the Almighty because of the innocence and purity of Virginia’s thoughts.
She also feels obliged to the Ghost as she learns a great lesson from him.
She says, “He made me see what life is, and what death signifies, and why love is stronger than both.” She came to know about the paramolint significance of love.
It is a satire because Wilde parodies the conventional elements of the gothic or ghost story.
This may be why Wilde ends the play the way he does, with Sir Simon being helped to rest in peace by Virginia and with Virginia being given the secret of living by Sir Simon.
Up From Slavery is a serialised account of his life.
It is an autobiography.
In Up from Slavery, Washington traces his journey from slave to educator.
The early sections document his childhood as a slave and his efforts to get an education, and he directly credits his education with his later success as a man of action in his community and the nation.
The pitiable and miserable condition of the slaves on plantations is the hallmark of the initial chapters of the autobiography.
Washington has given the details of his life candidly and the description is picturesque.
He opines that “the most trying ordeal that I was forced to endure as a slave boy was the wearing of a flax shirt.” It is a bare fact that the blacks were exploited and tormented in America.
But Washington portrays their character in a different way.
The sympathetic attitude of the Negroes towards their masters before and dining war is exceptional.
“This tenderness and sympathy on the part of those held in bondage was a result of their kindly and generous nature.” The reason of establishing the institution of slavery was not humane.
“It was established for selfish and financial reasons.” The description of the scene of Emancipation Proclamation Day is lively.
Washington considers this emancipation “freedom of the body in this world.” The boyhood days of Washington are full of misery, sorrow and disappointment.
He struggles hard to grow and hone his inbred skills.
West Virginia’s native residents are portrayed as “the poorest, most ignorant and degraded”.
The place is called “a motley mixture.” He works in a salt-mining and earns his livelihood.
But his incredible curiosity to explore new horizons does not get satisfied in the salt-mining.
So, Washington joins the night school to acquire knowledge.
His desire to pursue education despite the life’s hardships deserves attention.
His resolves that because “I had no ancestry myself I would leave a record of which my children would be proud, and which encourage them to still higher effort.” He does not wish to work for the coal mine.
The principal reason of this is to remain clean.
Those who work for coalmine remain unclean.
Washington comes to know about the Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute in Virginia and develops an irresistible desire to join it.
He starts his journey to Hampton.
He reaches the city of Richmond, Virginia and finds that he is out of money.
He requests the captain of vessel to permit him to unload the vessel so as to get money for food.
He pleases the captain with his sincerity, honesty and industrious nature.
Fortunately, he is admitted to the Institute and given the responsibility of janitor.
He meets General Samuel C Armstrong.
Washington calls him a perfect man and the noblest and rarest human being.
Washington details his transition from student to teacher, and outlines his own development as an educator and founder of the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama.
He determines “to remove the great bulk of these people into the country districts and plant them upon the soil, upon the solid and never deceptive foundation of Mother Nature, where all nations and races that have ever succeeded have gotten their start.” Armstrong invites Washington to return to Hampton partly as a teacher and partly to pursue some supplementary studies.
He tells the story of Tuskegee’s growth, from classes held in a shanty town to a campus with many new buildings.
He intends to impart a different kind of education with a different perspective.
He opines, “we wanted to give them such an education as would fit a large proportion of them to be teachers, and at the same time cause them to return to the plantation districts and show the people there how to put new energy and new ideas into farming, as well as into the intellectual, moral and religious life of the people.” He manages to purchase the mansion house or “big house” worth only five hundred dollars.
He seeks help of the white to erect buildings and meet out the other expenses of the school.
He provides the Negroes with the practical education as making bricks and mastering the art of a mason.
He aims “not only to have buildings erected by the students themselves, but to have them make their own furniture.” His experience in getting money for Tuskegee teaches him “to have no patience with those people who are always condemning the rich because they are rich, and they do not give more to objects of charity.” He goes from door to door to collect money for the school.
He begins his public-speaking career at the meeting of Educational Association in Madison.
In this address he advises the Negroes to become indispensable for the community in which they live.
They should harness their skills, sharpen their intellect and prove their mettle in the battle of life.
He teaches them to do a common thing in an uncommon manner.
He tells them that if they want to be respected, they will have to learn to produce what other people want and must have.
In the final chapters of Up From Slavery, Washington describes his career as a public speaker and civil rights activist.
Washington includes the address he gave at the Atlanta Cotton States and International Exposition in 1895, which made him a national figure.
He is invited in Atlanta to accompany a committee from that city to Washington for appearing before the committee of Congress in the interest of securing Government help for the Exposition.
In his address he says that “One third of the population of the South is of the Negro race.
No enterprise seeking the material, civil, or moral welfare of this section can disregard this element of our population and reach the highest success… No race can prosper till it learns that there is as much dignity in tilling a field as in writing a poem.” He suggests his community that “it is the bottom of life we must begin, and not at the top.”

He candidly confesses that the Negroes should not give vent to their grievances to overshadow their opportunities.
He criticises and condemns the agitation and demonstrations to get social equality.
He confidently and boldly says that “no race that has anything to contribute to the markets of the world is long in any degree ostracised.” His oratorical skills and making his presentation without any inhibition make him a grand success.
Mr Clarke Howell, the Editor of the Atlanta Constitution wrote, “I do not exaggerate when say that Prof Booker T. Washington’s address yesterday was one of the most notable speeches, both as to character and as to the warmth of its reception, ever delivered to a Southern audience.
The address was a revelation.
The whole speech is a platform upon which blacks and whites can stand with full justice to each other.”
In chapter 15, Washington discusses his secret of success in public speaking.
He explains the significance of pauses, breathing and pitch of voice.
His experience says that an average audience wants facts rather than generalities or sermonising.
The speakers who tell stories simply for the sake of telling anecdotes do not get success in this field.
Washington becomes a great orator and the representative of the community of Negroes.
He concludes his autobiography with an account of several recognitions he has received for his work, including an honorary degree from Harvard, and two significant visits to Tuskegee, one by President McKinley and another by General Samuel C. Armstrong.
He also mentions the success of the Institution that he establishes.
He has written, “At the present time the institution owns twenty three acres of land, one thousand of which are under cultivation each year, entirely by student labour.
There are now upon the grounds, counting large and small, sixty six buildings; and all except four of these have been almost wholly erected by the labour of our students.”

Washington’s Migration to West Virginia: After emancipation, the residents of the plantation planned to go from there.
Washington’s stepfather sent for his mother to come to the Kanawha Valley, West Virginia.
They walked several hundred miles to reach West Virginia.
It was a tedious journey and a painful undertaking.
The moment of departing from the former owners was irksome.
They had been travelling for several weeks and they slept in the open air.
They cooked over a log fire out-of-doors.
Eventually, they reached their destination.
Plight of People at West Virginia: Washington’s stepfather secured a job at a salt furnace and he also managed to own a little cabin for them to live in.
The new house was not better them the one they had on the old plantation in Virginia.
This new town cedled Malden was situated eunidst salt furnaces.
The residents of Medden were coloured people and some were “the poorest and most ignorant and degraded white people”.
It was a motley mixture.
Drinking, gambling, quarrels, fights and shockingly immoral practices were their characteristics.
Washington was also forced to work in one of the furnaces.
The condition of the Negroes was not better there.
They were leading a life full of frustration and depression.
‘
Washington’s Desire to Learn: Washington developed an intense longing to learn to read.
He planned that “if I accomplished nothing else in life, I would in some way get enough education to enable me to read common books and newspaper.” He requested his mother to bring a book for him.
She procured an old copy of Webster’s “blue black” spelling book which contained the alphabet.
He also joined the night school.
Washington suffered throughout his life because he had no ancestry.
But he resolved that he would pave the way for his children.
They would feel proud of him.
Washington’s Fear of Working in the Coal Mine: Washington did not wish to work for the coal mines.
He always dreaded and despised it.
He opined that those who worked for coal mines remained unclean.
It was a very hard job to get one’s skin clean after the day’s work was over.
Another reason of his fear was that “it was a mile from the opening of the coal mine to the face of the coal, and all, of course, was in the blackest darkness.
The work was not only hard but also dangerous.
Those who began life in a coal-mine were physically and mentally dwarfed.
So he did not wish to work there.”

Washington’s Indomitable will to join Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute in Virginia: Washington comes to know about Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute in Virginia.
He heard someone say that “not only was the school established for the members of any race, but the opportunities that it provided by which poor but worthy students could work out all or a part of the cost of a board, and at the same time be taught some trade or industry.” He was keenly interested in going to Hampton at the earliest.
He was on fire persistently with this ambition.
He increased his working horns in the coal-mine for a few months.
He also worked for Mrs. Viola Ruffner at a salaiy of $5 per month.
He learnt lessons in cleanliness at her residence.
She also encouraged him to get an education.
He developed his library.
He secured a dry-goods box and knocked out one side of it.
He put some shelves in it and began putting his books into it.
He got half hearted consent from his mother.
The Arduous Journey to Hampton: Washington started his journey to Hampton.
It was about five hundred miles.
He, somehow, managed to reach the city of Richmond, Virginia.
It was about eighty two miles from Hampton.
When he reached there, he was exhausted, tired, dirty and hungry.
He did have a single penny.
He did not know anyone there.
Nobody allowed him to stay in the inn or hotel.
He became disheartened.
He crept under the sidewalk and lay for the night upon the ground.
His satchel of clothes played the role of a pillow.
The next morning he pleaded the captain of the vessel to permit him to help unload the vessel in order to get money for food.
The captain was kind-hearted and consented.
He pleased the captain so well that he asked him to continue his work.
Washington kept spending his nights under the same sidewalk that gave him shelter the first night and saved some money.
Fortunately, he reached Hampton.
Turning Point of Washington’s Life: Washington made sincere efforts to get admitted to Hampton.
He confronted the head teacher and strove hard to impress her.
But she did not say anything and admitted other students.
After some time she asked him to clean the recitation room.
Washington’s positive attitude turned that assignment into a golden opportunity.
He cleaned the room and furniture.
She inspected the floor and closets.
But she could not find dirt.
Eventually, she remarked, “I guess you will do to enter this institution.
Washington knew no bounds and felt delighted”.
He was given the responsibility of a janitor.
He gladly accepted and discharged his duties with utmost care.
The work was hard but he did that.
He met General Armstrong whom he considered the perfect man.
Armstrong left an indelible impression on Washington.
At Hampton Washington propounded his theory of education.
He conceived that “there is no education which one can get from books and costly apparatus that is equal to that which can be gotten from contact with great men and women.” All students worshipped Armstrong.
Life at Hampton took Washington into a new world.
He earned and studied at Hampton.
Washington’s Financial Position at Hampton: Washington’s financial position at Hampton was very poor.
He owed the institution sixteen dollars.
So, he desired to save enough money during the summer so that he could pay his debt.
He economised in every possible way but could not save sixteen dollars.
He went to the treasurer of the Hampton Institute and told him his condition.
General JFB Marshall told him that “I could reenter the institution, and that he would trust me to pay the debt when I could.” In this way he continued his stay at Hampton.
His Eagerness to harness his skills: The most valuable thing that Washington learnt was the use and significance of the Bible.
He learnt to love to read the Bible.
He mastered the art of oratory because of Miss Lord.
She delivered him private lessons in the matter of breathing, emphasis and articulation.
The debating societies at Hampton were a source of fascination to Washington.
These were held on each Saturday evening and he never missed any meeting.
He was instrumental in organising an additional society.
He formed this society to utilise the twenty minutes between supper and evening study.
They derived happiness from the use of those twenty minutes.
Death of his Mother: Washington returned to Virginia after two years.
His mother and other members of the family were happy.
He was in search of work but could not find.
There was no work on account of the strike.
So, he went to a place at considerable distance from his home, to find employment.
He could not succeed.
He was returning home but could not walk any farther.
He decided to take rest in an abandoned house.
There he got the sad news of his mother’s demise.
That was the saddest and blankest moment of his life.
After the death of his mother chaos and confusion prevailed in the house.
Amanda was too young to cook food.
They were not in a position to hire a housekeeper.
Washington writes “Our clothing went uncared for, and everything about our home was soon in a tumble-down period.” Advantages of Studying at Hampton: Washington thought that one of the advantages of studying at Hampton was to meet Armstrong—“the rarest, strongest and most beautiful character”.
Second, at Hampton, he learnt what kind of education was beneficial to an individual.
He came to know that it was not a disgrace to labour.
He liked to labour not only for financial gains but also for labour’s own sake.
One had to become independent and self- reliant.
He was given lessons to live a life of unselfishness.
He acquired the knowledge that “the happiest individuals are those who do the most to make others useful and happy.”
Ku Klux Klan: The “Ku Klux” were bands of men who were pledged to regulate the conduct of coloured people.
Their principal objective was to prevent the members of the race from exercising any influence in politics.
They were all white men.
They operated almost wholly at night.
They burnt schools and churches.
They made many innocent persons suffer.
Their sole purpose was to crush out the political aspirations of the Negroes.
Washington felt that “the Ku Klux period was the darkest part of the Reconstruction days.”Reconstruction Period and Baseless Policy: The Reconstruction Period was from 1867 to 1878.
During this period, people were crazy to learn Greek and Latin.
They also desired to hold office.
They felt the knowledge of Greek and Latin languages would make them a superior human being.
Most of the people who received some education became teachers and preachers.
Washington thought that the Reconstruction policy was formulated on a false foundation.
It was artificial and forced.
It was formed to use as a tool so that white men could be helped to enter into office.
Washington felt convinced that his race would suffer for this in the end.
Comparison between Hampton and Washington DC: Washington decides to pursue his studies at Washington after teaching in Malden for two years.
He stayed at Washington for eight months.
At this school students had no financial problems.
They were better dressed and wore the latest style of clothes.
At Hampton students were to pay for their board, books, clothing and room wholly by work, or partly by work and partly in cash.
The pupils developed their character and became industrious.
The education imparted at Washington DC did not impress Booker T. Washington.
He said, “They knew more about Latin and Greek when they left school, but they seemed to know less about life and its conditions as they would meet at their homes.”
Plight of Women at Washington DC: The plight of women at Washington DC was tragic.
The elderly women earned their living by laundrying.
They got their daughters admitted to school.
These girls were taught by their mothers.
These girls entered the public schools and remained their perhaps six or eight years.
After completing the public school course, their wants used to become unlimited.
On the other hand, they forgot the occupation of their mothers also.
The result of this was that most of the girls went astray.
Washington feld disheartened because he never intended to impart this kind of education.
Washington’s Opportunities to Grow: Washington got ample opportunities to excel in the field of public speaking and teaching.
He received an invitation from a committee of three white men in Charleston to canvass the state in their interests of the city.
He accepted the proposal and addressed people in various parts of the state.
He was also invited by General Armstrong to Hampton at the next commencement to deliver the “post-graduate address”.
They readily consented and chose for his subject “The Force That Wins”.
He was also asked by Armstrong to return to Hampton partly as a teacher and partly pursue some supplementary studies.
The General desired him to act as “house-father” to the Indian young men.
He accepted that challenging task and succeeded.
Perception of People towards American Negroes and Indians: The attitude and outlook of the native residents of the place towards Negroes was biased.
The caste system in America was very potent.
Once Washington took an Indian boy to Washington.
During his journey to Washington, on a steamboat he waited for others to finish their meal.
Then he entered the dining room.
The man in charge politely informed him that the Indian could be served, but he could not be served.
After reaching the hotel at Washington he came to know that they could allow the Indian into the house, but they could not accommodate him.
These incidents show their biased attitude.
Lencho was a dedicated farmer.
He was expecting a decent harvest.
However, to his grief, a hail storm came and destroyed his harvest completely.
Lencho was very sad.
However, he had a strong belief in God.
He was certain that God would help him.
Also, he was an extremely straightforward man.
Although working for a long time on the farm, he knew writing.
Thus, he composed a letter to God.
In the letter, he asked God to send him one hundred pesos.
At that point, he went to the post office and put his letter into the post box.
The postman removed the letter from the letter-box.
He read the address on it and laughed very much.
Also, he rushed to the postmaster and demonstrated to him that strange letter.
Moreover, the postmaster also laughed in the same way when he saw the address of God.
However, on reading the letter, he got very serious.
He lauded this man who had unquestioned faith in God and decided to help him in terms of money.
He asked the employees of the post office to give charity.
Moreover, he gave a part of-of his salary too.
However, they were able to collect only a little more than 50 pesos as requested for by Lencho.
The postmaster put the money in an envelope.
It was addressed to Lencho.
On Sunday, Lencho once again came to the post-office.
He asked if there was a letter for him.
The postmaster took out the letter and handed it to Lencho.
Lencho was not surprised after seeing the money.
But when he counted the money, he became angry on God.
He was sure that God could not have made a mistake.
He took paper and ink and wrote one more letter to God.
Then he put it into the letter-box.
After Lencho had left the place, the postmaster and the employees read the letter.
In it, Lencho had complained to God that he had received only seventy pesos.
Also, he requested God to send him the rest of the money this time.
However, he asked God not to send the money through the mail.
He wrote that the post-office employees were a bunch of crooks and thus might have stolen the money.
Long Walk to Freedom is the autobiography of Nelson Mandela, who was the former South African President.
This article is for Nelson Mandela long walk to freedom summary.
This chapter is the extracts from the “Long Walk to Freedom” book.
It includes the description of the inauguration ceremony and citations from his speech and about his journey to being a freedom fighter.
It says about the other countless people who fought for their freedom.
In South Africa, a brutal practice named “apartheid” was very popular in those days.
It referred to the discrimination between people on the basis of their race and colour.
It was one of the most brutal societies in which dark-skinned people were deprived of their basic rights.
This lesson gives us an overview of the struggles of Mandela for making the society with no discrimination on the basis of their colour, caste, race, age or gender.
“A Long to Freedom”, by Nelson Mandela is all about the struggle of freedom of South-Africa.
On May 10, 1994, Nelson Mandela has taken the vow as the first black president of South Africa.
And therefore it was becoming a new-born democratic country.
Nelson Mandela took the oath as the first black president.
Many dignitaries from different countries had come to be part of the most significant day.
In his speech, Mandela thanked all those dignitaries.
Mandela assured his countrymen that his country would never ever experience the same suppression of one by another.
Democracy had been established in South Africa and as a result, a government of no discrimination was established.
The people of South Africa sang two National Anthems as a symbol of that day.
Mandela recalled that the reason for this movement was that Black-skinned people were exploited by the White people.
He said that this type of suppression of people of South Africa is the origin of many stars.
People must learn to hate first, because if they hate then they can be taught to love, as love comes from the opposite circumstances.
He also says that a brave man is not that who does not feel afraid but who conquers it.
In life, a man has two major obligations.
First towards his family, to his parents, to his wife and to his children and second on the other hand obligation towards his country, people and the community.
Everyone fulfils his duty as per his inclination and interest.
But it was very tough to fulfil in a country like South Africa.
When Mandela became an adult then he understood that his freedom was only an illusion.
In fact, he was the slave of exploitation.
He also understood that not only he was a slave but his other family members were also.
According to him, Freedom is also mandatory for them who were suppressing others in the past.
They also have the right to have it because snatcher of other’s freedom is a prisoner of the same.
Thus, the oppressor is as much a prisoner as the oppressed.
The oppressor too is not free.
The author feels that it is strange and unusual for her to write a diary because it is the first time she is doing it.
She feels that in the future no one will read about a young girl’s past experiences.
But then she puts these thoughts away and decides to write her thoughts.
The author is feeling very lonely as she has no friends to talk to.
She wants to give her need of friend a shape, hence decides to name the diary as “kitty”.
The writer feels that the paper has more capacity to absorb thoughts rather than people who have low patience level.
She has a good time with friends but cannot share everything with them as they are not true friends.
She refers to her father as the most lovable who presents her the Diary on her 13th birthday.
On June 20, 1942, she mentions how her class is nervous about their results.
The author says that the only subject she is unsure about is mathematics.
She and her friend, G are trying to stop the students from making noise, but to no avail.
According to the author, about the quarter of the class should not pass as they do not participate in any activities.
Anne recalls how the maths professor is constantly irritated by her talkativeness.
While talking in his classes he gives her extra homework as punishment.
The first punishment is to write an essay on “Chatterbox”, which the author thinks as weird.
She imagines about the topic and decides to present concrete arguments in support of talking.
She writes that she will try to better herself but cannot eliminate talking completely.
The professor finds it amusing but allots another topic after she did not change her nature.
The topic is An incorrigible chatterbox which refers to a habit that is difficult to change.
After keeping an eye on her, the professor gives her another topic, Quack, Quack, Quack, Said Mistress Chatterbox, as a punishment.
She runs out of thought after writing two times on a similar topic.
She decides to write her third topic in the form of a poem and writes a satire and luckily the professor takes it lightly.
The professor recites the entire poem in front of the class and the author talked uninterruptedly after this.
The lesson starts with a letter received from Wanda’s father.
This letter was informing the school about their decision of moving to a big city.
Because there nobody would tease Wanda for her uncommon name as well her appearance.
After knowing the content of the letter through the teacher the whole class was in a shock.
And they realized their derogatory comments and attitude towards Wanda.
Maddie felt so bad that she is a coward and never stopped Peggy from making the fun of Wanda.
This is the reason that’s why she couldn’t focus on her studies after knowing the facts.
She desired to meet Wanda to clarify her stand that she never meant to hurt her feelings.
So, she made up her mind to go to her house and tell her also that she has won the prize.
When the school was over Maddie and Peggy both visited the residence of Wanda at Boggins Height to meet her.
But till that date, the girl, Wanda and her family had already left from there.
So, their visit was fruitless.
Then both girls wrote a friendly letter to Wanda to tell her that she had won the contest.
But after many days still, there was no answer from Wanda.
It was the time of Christmas when Miss Mason got a letter from Wanda.
Wanda had written a letter and wished Merry Christmas to all the girls.
Further, she wrote that the girls could keep those hundred dresses because in her new house she will have a hundred new ones.
She gifted all special drawings to Peggy and Maddie.
They accepted and pinned them in their bedrooms.
Maddie gazed for a long time at the picture and found that the face in the drawing was resembling her own face.
Then she ran to Peggy’s house to see her drawing too.
Peggy was also happy after getting the same in the drawing.
Peggy has consoled herself that Wanda will really like them.
Maddie agrees to all this and blinks away the tears which came when she thought of Wanda Petronski.
There are a lot of instances in the story showing how racism affects the social and personal lives.
This story is making people realize and feel about such discrimination.
A baker from Goa is a story that relates to the time when there was Portuguese rule in Goa.
The story is of a baker living in a Goan village.
During those times people ate loaves of bread.
These were made in big furnaces.
The bakers known as paders would come to sell these bread in the street and would make a jingle sound with the bamboo.
Although, nowadays we may not see these loaves but may sometimes see the furnaces and some bakers carrying on the traditional business of their forefathers.
The author remembers the coming of the baker twice a day during his childhood days.
He was the author’s friend and guide.
The maidservants in the author’s house would buy loaves of bread which they ate with tea.
During those days, bread was an important part of any occasion especially the sweet bread, Bol.
Also, the baker had a peculiar dress, Kabai.
It was a single-piece frock that would reach up to knees.
Baking was a profitable business at that time.
Coorg is a story describing the Coorg or Kodagu, the smallest district of Karnataka.
The author describes Coorg as a heavenly place that lies between Mangalore and Mysore.
It is certainly God’s abode as it has evergreen forests, spices and coffee plantations.
From September to March, the weather is good here and thus many tourists come to visit the place.
The air here has the coffee aroma in it.
There’s a famous story about the Greek or Arabic descent of the Coorg people that a part of Alexander’s army had to settle here as it was not possible for them to return.
They thus settled here and married with the locals.
We may find people of Coorg wear Kuppia, a long black coat similar to the kuffia that Arabs wear.
People of Coorg are also very brave.
The Coorg Regiment of Indian Army is one of the most significant regiments.
Also, our first army chief, General Cariappa hails from Coorg.
The forests and hills of Coorg provide a major source of water to the River Cauvery.
Also, Mahaseer, the largest freshwater fish is found in these waters.
From the top of the Brahmagiri hills, we can see the complete view of Coorg.
Also, Buddhists monks live in Bylakuppe in the Island of Nisargadhama near Coorg.
The last story Tea from Assam starts with two friends, Rajvir and Pranjol travelling to Assam.
On their way, they buy the tea from a roadside vendor.
While sipping the tea, Rajvir tells Pranjol that people drink over 800,000,000 cups of tea throughout the world in a day.
While Rajvir is looking at the beautiful and serene scenery, Pranjol is busy reading detective book.
There were tea-bushes all over as far as one could see.
They also saw a building which was a tea garden.
Assam has the largest tea plantations and no one knows who discovered the tea for the first time.
But, there are many legends associated with it.
According to a Chinese legend, a few branches of tea fell accidentally in the boiled hot water.
The Emperor liked the delicious flavour.
This is how it came into being.
As per an Indian legend, Buddhist Monk, Bodhidharma cut off his eyelids as to avoid sleep during meditation.
About ten tea plants grew out of these and thus, they banish sleep when put in hot water and drunk.
Both of them got down at Mariani Junction and went to Dhekiabari Tea Estate.
There they saw women plucking tea leaves.
Pranjol’s father had come to receive them there and said that he knew a lot about tea plantations.
Rajvir says that he is keen to learn from him.
Gautama Buddha was born in a North Indian royal family.
He was born as a prince.
Moreover, his childhood name was Siddhartha Gautama.
He was sent to a faraway place to study Hindu sacred scriptures at the age of twelve.
Then, upon returning after four years, he got married to a princess.
Soon, they both were blessed with a son.
Then, they continued to live the royal life for about ten years.
The Royals were shielded from the unpleasant experiences of the world.
However, one day, on his way to hunt, the Prince met a sick man, an aged man, a funeral procession and a monk who was begging for.
Such experiences acted as an eye-opener for him Hence, he left all the royalty behind to seek a higher sense of spiritual knowledge.
Then, when he attained salvation, he began preaching.
His first sermon given in the city of Benares.
There was a lady whose name was Kisa Gotami whose son has died.
She was suffering from unending pain.
Thus, she went from house to house looking for medicine to make her son alive.
People thought that the lady has lost her senses.
However, one day, she met a man who directed her towards Lord Buddha.
He felt that Buddha could possibly have a solution for her problem.
Then, Buddha asked her to look for mustard seeds and the seeds must be procured from a house where there had been no death.
Filled with hope, Kisa Gotami once again went on a search from house to house but she could not find mustard seeds from a house according to Buddha’s condition.
Thus, she was disheartened and sat at the edge of the road where she realised how selfish she had been.
She realised the fact that men are mortal.
Also, no one could escape the cycle of life.
This was the only fact that Buddha wanted her to understand.
According to Lord Buddha, feelings of grief and sorrow increases man’s pain and suffering.
It serves no other purpose.
Moreover, it deteriorates the health.
Thus, a wise person who is fully aware of nature’s functioning must not grieve at something bound to happen.
This is the only way in which he can be happy and blessed.
In this poem, “I” is the voice of the speaker of the poem Adrienne Rich.
Poem The Trees is the voice with a body engaged in the activities and sensing intrusions that are not organic to the conventions of a nature poem.
This is actually an unnatural poem that narrates the struggle of a population of trees to escape the confined surrounding of a greenhouse.
Through the trees, this poem demonstrates the unsuitability of the language itself as a greenhouse.
The poetess is the witness for the trees exodus but making distances herself from participating in the making of something out of the spectacle.
She can sit and write too.
Even though the speaker addresses the audience, her own head is full of whispers and she is an audience as well.
We, however, the audience to the poem, are compelled with the command.
The speaker reaches across the barrier between the poem and the audience.
A transaction that occurs on the page, and says for listening.
Poetess articulates her consciousness of the many levels of inner and outer and the blurring of the boundaries between them.
In the poem, the trees are in the house of the poet.
Their roots work all night to disengage themselves from the cracks of the floor in the veranda.
The leaves are making efforts to move towards the glass.
An open door is for the night and the whole moon and the sky is available to the speaker.
This tree is at the same time, through this door the smell of leaves still reaches back in.
The speaker’s head is another interior and implicitly entered by the whispers.
The poetess is especially intrigued by the image of the trees similar to newly discharged patients.
The poet is making a comparison to the long-cramped branches which are shuffling under the roof with the newly discharged patients from the hospital.
As they are moving towards the hospital doors after their long illnesses.
The branches have cramped under the gaps with the roof.
Therefore they want to get out into the open to spread themselves in the fresh air.
Everything and everyone made or born in our world, no matter how small or large has a special significance.
We often underestimate people by looking at their weaknesses, but they show themselves through their wits and actions.
We must never look down on others.
Each individual is unique in their own way; they may have various skill sets that we are ignorant of.
A person whom we consider to be useless or unimportant can become a hero in unexpected and unforeseen circumstances.
Furthermore, correct and timely measures are usually advantageous.
In other words, a stitch in time saves nine, which also serves as the poem’s central theme.
The poem’s topic is that everyone has their own unique qualities and should never be judged based on their appearance.
We should never make fun of somebody based on their behaviour, looks, qualities, or flaws.
For they are the ones who stand tall and boldly in the face of adversity.
Frederic Ogden Nash is an American poet, who is famous for his light verse.
He was famous as the producer of humorous poetry.
He wrote this poem ‘The Tale of Custard the Dragon” in the style of a ballad means a song that tells a story.
Ballads narrate the tales of courage or heroism.
Such a humorous ballad is ending with a parody.
The poem begins by introducing the poem’s main character, Belinda.
Belinda lived in a little white house, with her four pets a black kitten, a grey mouse, a yellow dog, a little dragon and a red wagon too.
The name of the little black kitten was Ink, the little grey mouse was Blink, and the little yellow dog was Mustard.
Bu, the dragon was a coward, and Belinda called him Custard.
Custard dragon was having big sharp teeth, spikes on top of him and scales underneath.
His mouth was similar to a fireplace, and his nose was like a chimney.
Also, he had daggers on his toes.
Belinda believed herself as brave as a barrel full of bears.
Ink and Blink were able to chase lions down the stairs.
Mustard was as brave as an angry tiger.
On the other hand, Custard always acted as the weakest one.
Belinda always tickled Custard ruthlessly.
Other pets sarcastically called him Percival means a knight of King Arthur’s court who sought the Holy Grail.
Belinda and the other animals used to laugh at the dragon, who was a coward, while sitting in the red wagon (vehicle).
Whenever Custard wanted a safe cage for him, Belinda and Blink giggled to their heart’s content.
Not only this, Ink and Mustard asked him how old he was that he was scared of every little thing.
Belinda and her pets were awakened one day by a nasty noise.
They were all terrified at the same time.
When they observed a pirate climbing through the window, Ink and Belinda both raised an eyebrow.
The pirate had guns in both his hands and a knife between his teeth.
He had a black beard and one of his legs was made of wood.
Seeing the Pirate, Belinda started crying for help.
Mustard became scared and raced away, making a lot of noise.
Ink and Blink raced to their holes and hid as well.
The pirate shot two bullets at Custard but they did not affect him in any cause.
Only Custard fought with the pirate and ate him up in his single bite.
Belinda embraced Custard, and Mustard licked him.
As the dragon devoured the pirate, Ink and Blink danced around it in delight.
As Custard saved everyone, all thanked him.
But in the end, they realized that they used to make fun of the dragon as he was timid.
So, all of them suddenly started saying that they are braver than him and hence could have handled the situation in a much better way.
Custard’s timid ways persisted even after this daring incident.
He was still pleading for a safe cage.
“The Tale of Custard the Dragon” is both serious and funny to us.
It appears severe to us because the poor dragon is chastised and mocked by his buddies.
Custard, the dragon, on the other hand, does not irritate or resist them.
Instead, he flees to a more secure location.
However, later in the poem, he displays his worth by saving his family members from the pirate.
The poem is also amusing because the members mock and ridicule him.
Furthermore, the characters and their names are really amusing.
The poem also teaches us to never underestimate any shy, timid, weak, or low-esteemed individual since they may emerge as the strongest, bravest, and courageous in difficult and unforeseen situations.
William Butler Yeats wrote many love poems.
For Anne Gregory’ is one of the best and beautiful poems by him.
This poem is in the form of a conversation between a speaker, who may be the poet himself, or Anne’s lover or friend and maybe Anne Gregory herself.
The other speakers may be in the belief that the young man loves Anne for her external beauty.
But here the speaker (maybe Anne Gregory) says that external beauty is not the real, and therefore young man should love her for herself only.
In this poem, the poet is presenting the description of a lover’s love for a woman.
The lover may like the yellow colour of the woman’s hair.
But he does not like her ramparts, means here the hair around the ear.
So, the lady does not approve of his love.
She wishes such a lover who loves her based on her internal qualities and not by the external and physical look.
She says that her yellow hair is a temporary entity.
Therefore, she may dye them into another colour like brown or black or carrot soon.
And hence in this way, she may get her true love due to her internal beauty.
Then the poet says that only God loves we all humans on the bases of our soul and internal qualities and but our body and physical features.
Undoubtedly, only selfless love is true, and God only gives true love.
Poet is of the view that most people love others only because they attract them by physical qualities.
Thus, the complexion of the skin and the colour of the hair may be more important for us than the ‘real’ worth of the person.
It means we rarely love people ‘for themselves alone’.
Even the beautiful Anne Gregory does not want to be liked or loved for her external beauty or her rare qualities of her beautiful yellow hair.
Shallow minded people only adore physical beauty.
But rather we should look for spiritual beauty before falling in love with a lady.
Physical beauty is just an illusion and momentary.
Unfortunately, most of the people are merely attracted by the colour of the skin and hair.
Dr. Herriot had pulled up his car when he saw Mrs. Pumphrey with her little dog on the street.
The dog was very fat.
He had blood-red and rheumy eyes.
His tongue lolled from his jaws.
Dr. Herriot was shocked to see his appearance.
Mrs. Pumphrey called Tricki (the little dog) as listless.
He had no energy.
So, she gave him extras between meals.
But his health could not be built up.
Even the malt, cod liver oil and bowl of Horlicks failed to make him sleepy.
Mrs. Pumphrey cut down on the sweet things but relented when Tricki started getting weaker.
She gave him his favourite cream cakes and chocolates.
She gave him food at odd and irregular hours.
She gave him only little walks and no other exercise.
The doctor advised Mrs. Pumphrey to cut Tricki’s food right down and to give him more exercise.
Mrs. Pumphrey got determined to adhere to the doctor’s stern advice.
Dr. Herriot watched Tricki’s progress but was not satisfied.
Soon after he left eating and kept vomiting and panting.
The doctor suggested that Tricki should be kept under observation in the hospital.
Mrs. Pumphrey started wailing when Dr. Herriot took Tricki to his hospital.
Everybody in her household, including her maids, were in tears.
Tricki could not even wag his tail or kick with his legs.
His eyes too had become dull and he lay down motionless on the carpet.
The other dogs at the surgery ignored him as an uninteresting object.
The doctor gave him plenty of water.
He became a bit energetic after two days.
On the third day he trotted out and enjoyed the company of other dogs.
He also started eating properly.
The doctor did not give Tricki any medicinal treatment.
All day, he frolicked with other dogs cheerfully.
He got out of danger and started convalescing rapidly.
Mrs. Pumphrey enquired about Tricki on phone many times a day.
She was suffering from the pangs of his separation.
Ultimately, she was told that Tricki had recovered.
She reached the ‘surgery’ by car to collect him.
The doctor brought Tricki in his arms.
Tricki jumped into Mrs. Pumphrey’s lap and started licking her face.
Tears were shining in her eyes.
She thanked the doctor with trembling lips.
Hari Singh is the narrator of this story.
He is an artful thief.
One day, he met a young man of twenty-five named Anil, at a wrestling match.
He gave him an artificial smile.
He desired to have an acquaintance with him in order to make him his next victim.
Anil avoided him.
Hari Singh followed Anil after the match was over.
He asked Anil for work.
He was ready to work for Anil if he could just feed him.
Anil agreed to engage Hari Singh if he could cook food for both.
The thief lied that he was a good cook as Anil had to throw the bad meal, prepared by Hari Singh to dogs, on the first day.
Anil took upon himself to teach him how to cook and read and how to write.
The thief made the morning tea and bought the daily supplies.
Anil was aware of the fact that Hari Singh made a profit from the purchases.
Anil was not a rich man.
He borrowed money sometimes but repaid the loan whenever he earned money through his writings for magazines.
The thief thought it a strange way of making money.
One day, Anil sold a book to a publisher and brought home a bundle of notes.
He put the money under his mattress.
The thief had not stolen anything since a month of his working there.
He had no desire to rob a careless person who trusted him blindly.
However, he could not resist the temptation of getting the bundles of notes.
The thief got up quietly when Anil had gone to sleep.
He took the money and slipped out of the room.
He had six hundred rupees in his possession.
He reached the railway station just as the Lucknow Express was picking up speed.
He could have boarded it but something held him back.
The train was soon out of his sight.
Hari Singh was left alone on the platform.
He was in a dilemma where to go.
He had no acquaintance there.
He did not like to go to a hotel lest he should be suspected.
The thief thought that Anil would be sad not for the loss of money but for the loss of trust he had reposed on him.
It was a cold night.
It was drizzling when he went to the maidan and sat down on a bench.
His clothes got drenched.
He went back to the bazaar.
There he took shelter under the clock tower.
It was midnight.
He thought and realized that he had let go a chance of being a respectable man.
Anil was taking pains to teach him reading and writing.
He decided to go back to Anil and reached his home.
Anil was still asleep.
He slipped the money at its usual place.
He slept till late hours.
Anil had made tea before Hari Singh woke up.
Anil offered him a fifty rupee note.
He also promised him to pay him regularly.
The note was still wet.
Anil understood everything but he did not expose the thief’s doing.
Instead, Anil said that they would start writing sentences that day.
Hari Singh felt guilty and smiled shamefacedly.
Once a boy was playing with his ball.
It was bouncing in the street up and down.
The boy was happily enjoying the game.
While bouncing, suddenly it fell into the water and was lost.
Without the ball, the boy became full of grief.
The poet said that there were other balls.
He could purchase another since it was not a great loss.
There was no need to worry.
But, the boy has had that ball for a long time so he was deeply grieved due to his attachment with it.
It was linked to his memories.
The poet thinks that it is of no use to purchase another ball.
He must feel his responsibility of the loss.
The poem is about a young boy who loses his ball.
Usually, losing a ball should not be a big issue.
Young boys usually lose their toys and balls quite often.
The ball is seen `merrily’ bouncing down the street.
And ultimately the ball falls down into the water and lost forever.
The boy stood there sadly watching the ball go.
But he was helpless.
Nor could he do anything to get the ball back.
The ball here symbolises the innocent childhood of the boy which has slipped away and he wants it back.
It is of no use to remind him that it was not a big loss.
He can get more balls and continue his game.
But for the boy, the loss of the ball is a great loss.
There may be other balls and perhaps he can hope to get any one of them.
However, the ball that he has lost can’t be retrieved.
It has fallen into the deep water of the harbour.
The boy is inconsolable.
He loses hope in himself and becomes depressed and hopeless.
He stands still, trembling and looking at the point where his ball has gone down into the harbour.
Here, the lost ball stands for the lost childhood and the harbour stands for the vastness of life.
It will not serve any purpose to remind him that the ball costs just a dime and is worth nothing.
But there comes a change in his mood and thinking.
He realises that in this world the loss is the part of the game.
He must take such losses in life in his stride.
Achievements will follow losses in life.
And a thing that is lost once can’t be retrieved or brought back.
Money can’t buy the lost childhood, the lost dreams and the lost feelings back.
Money is external to such losses.
The poet gives a message of hope and encouragement.
Ultimately, he comes out of his depression and hopelessness.
He has to learn how he should stand up to bear the loss.
The theme of the poem is that life is precious and should not be wasted.
Life has to be lived.
And life can be lived purposefully and fruitfully only when we stand up and come out of depression.
How to Tell Wild Animals’ is a beautiful poem by Carolyn Wells about the strange habits and behaviours of some wild animals.
The poet says that the Asian lion is a large tawny beast with a fearful roar.
A tiger has black stripes on his yellow skin and is always ready to eat his victim.
A leopard has black spots on his skin.
He leaps on his prey and eats it up.
A bear can come to human colonies.
He hugs up against a person and can put to death.
A crocodile always sheds tears while eating its victim.
A hyena always looks smiling.
A chameleon always changes its colour according to its surrounding.
This is the strange world of some of the wild animals.
The young seagull was alone on his ledge.
His two brothers and his sister had already flown away.
When he wanted to fly, he could not do so.
He was afraid of flying.
When his brothers and sister flew, he failed to gather the courage to fly.
He was really very sad.
His father and mother came to him.
They asked him to fly.
They even rebuked him.
They threatened if he did not fly, he would die of hunger there.
But he could not move.
That was twenty-four hours ago.
Since then, no one has come near him.
He had watched his parents and brothers and sister flying.
His parents had been perfecting his brothers and sister how to dive for fish.
They called him to fly.
But he could not.
The sun was rising.
It was getting very hot.
He felt the heat.
He had not eaten for long.
He had found a dried piece of a fish tail.
But it was not enough.
There was not even a single piece of food anywhere for him.
He had gone forward and backward on the ledge.
But he couldn’t fly.
He wanted to reach his parents.
There was a deep sea below.
The ridge was high.
The seagull closed his eyes standing on one leg.
He had the other leg hidden under his wing.
He pretended to sleep.
He thought that his parents didn’t take notice of him.
However, mother was looking at him.
He saw her tearing at a piece of fish at her feet.
He was mad to see the food.
He gave out a sound to get it.
His mother replied in a sound and looked at him.
She picked a piece of the fish.
She flew across to him with it.
He leaned out tapping the rock with his feet.
His mother flew across trying to get nearer to him.
The seagull had the food within the reach of his beak.
But he could not get at it.
The seagull waited a moment in surprise.
He wondered why his mother did not come nearer.
He was so mad with hunger that he dived at the fish.
He fell outwards with a scream and downwards into space.
His mother had swooped upwards.
As he passed beneath her, he heard the swish of her wings.
Then a great fear caught him.
His heart stood still.
He could hear nothing.
But it only lasted for a moment.
The next moment, he felt his wings spread outwards.
He felt the wind rushing against his breast feathers.
It rushed under his stomach, and against his wings.
He was not falling headlong now.
He was soaring slowly downwards and upwards.
He was no longer afraid.
The seagull gave out a joyous scream.
He soared higher calling ‘ga, ga, ga’.
His mother gave out ‘gaw col-ah’.
Then his father flew over him screaming.
Then he saw his brothers and sister flying around him.
They were roaring and diving.
Then he completely forgot that he had not always been able to fly.
He commended himself to dive and soar.
He was near the sea now, flying straight over it.
He saw a vast green sea beneath him.
His parents and his brothers and sister had landed on the green surface of water ahead of him.
They were calling him to do the same thing.
He dropped his leg to stand on the green sea.
But his legs sank into it.
He cried with fear.
He tried to rise again flapping his wings.
But he was tired and weak with hunger.
He could not rise.
His feet sank into the green sea.
His belly touched it but he sank no further.
He was floating on it.
Around him was his family, crying and praising him.
It was offering him scraps of dog-fish.
The author says that he was flying an aeroplane at 1 o’clock at night.
The moon was coming up in the east behind him.
Stars were shining in the clear sky above him.
He was flying his old Dakota aeroplane over France, back to England.
He was dreaming of his holiday.
He was looking forward to being with his family.
He decided to call Paris control.
He then radioed to it.
He told it that he was on his way to England.
Paris control duly acknowledged.
It advised him to turn twelve degrees west.
He duly turned to that direction.
Everything was going well.
Paris was about 150 kilometres behind him.
Then he saw the storm clouds.
They looked like black mountains in front of him.
He knew he could not fly up and over them.
He decided to go back to Paris.
But he also wanted to get home.
So, he took the risk and flew into the storm.
He could see nothing outside his aeroplane.
Everything was black.
The old aeroplane jumped and twisted in the air.
He looked at the compass.
It was gone.
He tried to contact Paris control.
He was lost in the storm.
Then in the black clouds, he saw another aeroplane.
It had no lights on its wings.
He could see it flying next to him in the storm.
He was glad to see another person.
He was signalling to follow him.
The author thought he was trying to help him.
So, he followed him.
He flew for half an hour.
He had fuel to last for five or ten minutes.
He began to feel frightened.
Then he started to go down.
Suddenly he was on the runway.
He looked for his friend in the black aeroplane.
He wanted to thank him.
But the sky was empty.
He went into the control tower.
He asked a woman where he was.
She looked at him strangely and then she laughed.
She told that there was no other aeroplane except that of his.
The author was wonderstruck.
He wondered who had helped him to arrive there.
He was without a compass or a radio and without any more fuel in his tanks, who was the pilot on the strange black aeroplane, flying in the storm without lights.
Hari Singh is the narrator of this story.
He is an artful thief.
One day, he met a young man of twenty-five named Anil, at a wrestling match.
He gave him an artificial smile.
He desired to have an acquaintance with him in order to make him his next victim.
Anil avoided him.
Hari Singh followed Anil after the match was over.
He asked Anil for work.
He was ready to work for Anil if he could just feed him.
Anil agreed to engage Hari Singh if he could cook food for both.
The thief lied that he was a good cook as Anil had to throw the bad meal, prepared by Hari Singh to dogs, on the first day.
Anil took upon himself to teach him how to cook and read and how to write.
The thief made the morning tea and bought the daily supplies.
Anil was aware of the fact that Hari Singh made a profit from the purchases.
Anil was not a rich man.
He borrowed money sometimes but repaid the loan whenever he earned money through his writings for magazines.
The thief thought it a strange way of making money.
One day, Anil sold a book to a publisher and brought home a bundle of notes.
He put the money under his mattress.
The thief had not stolen anything since a month of his working there.
He had no desire to rob a careless person who trusted him blindly.
However, he could not resist the temptation of getting the bundles of notes.
The thief got up quietly when Anil had gone to sleep.
He took the money and slipped out of the room.
He had six hundred rupees in his possession.
He reached the railway station just as the Lucknow Express was picking up speed.
He could have boarded it but something held him back.
The train was soon out of his sight.
Hari Singh was left alone on the platform.
He was in a dilemma where to go.
He had no acquaintance there.
He did not like to go to a hotel lest he should be suspected.
The thief thought that Anil would be sad not for the loss of money but for the loss of trust he had reposed on him.
It was a cold night.
It was drizzling when he went to the maidan and sat down on a bench.
His clothes got drenched.
He went back to the bazaar.
There he took shelter under the clock tower.
It was midnight.
He thought and realized that he had let go a chance of being a respectable man.
Anil was taking pains to teach him reading and writing.
He decided to go back to Anil and reached his home.
Anil was still asleep.
He slipped the money at its usual place.
He slept till late hours.
Anil had made tea before Hari Singh woke up.
Anil offered him a fifty rupee note.
He also promised him to pay him regularly.
The note was still wet.
Anil understood everything but he did not expose the thief’s doing.
Instead, Anil said that they would start writing sentences that day.
Hari Singh felt guilty and smiled shamefacedly.
A young and romantic writer named Fowler came to meet Ausable in a French hotel.
He lived on the top and sixth floors of the hotel, which was gloomy.
Ausable was a secret agent.
As all people, Fowler had also formed an idealized image of a secret agent based on films and books.
But Ausable did not match what Fowler had ever read or imagined of a secret agent.
He was a fat slobber with an American accent.
During the conversation, Ausable revealed that he was keeping a very important ‘paper’.
A man with an automatic gun stood half-way through the room as soon as Ausable and Fowler entered the room and switched on the lights.
As Ausable approached Max, he was shocked to see him because Max was supposed to be in Berlin that evening.
Max was a lean, not very tall man.
Max demanded the important report concerning some new missiles that were in the custody of Ausable.
He wanted to take it from Ausable.
In the midst of the chaos, Ausable told Fowler and Max that the balcony below his window was causing him a lot of trouble.
It was the second time in a month that someone had entered his room from there.
Max was unaware of the balcony and told Ausable that he had entered it with a passkey.
He was informed that Ausable said the balcony actually belonged to the other apartment, which extended under his window.
There was a sudden knock at Max’s door while Ausable and Max were still discussing the ‘missile paper’.
Max was frightened when Ausable told him that he had asked the police to come with the documents because the papers were so important.
He also told Max that the door was unbolted, and the police would barge in and kill Max if the knock did not get answered.
After the second knock, Max became extremely nervous, telling Ausable that he would wait on the balcony while the police should stay away from the house.
With the pistol still pointed at Ausable, Max moved back to the window.
After leaving his hands free, he jumped off the sill and fell into the balcony, but since there was no balcony, Max fell from the sixth floor and died.
He screamed shrilly as he fell.
There was a waiter standing by the door with a tray, a bottle, and two glasses.
It turned out that it wasn’t the police, but the waiter Ausable had ordered already.
The man who jumped off the balcony was still white-faced.
Ausable assured Fowler that Max wouldn’t return since there wasn’t a balcony below the window.
A fifty-year-old locksmith, Horace Danby, had an unusual hobby of collecting rare and expensive books.
Even though he was healthy throughout the year, he got hay fever attacks in the summers.
His limited resources prevented him from doing that with his honest income, so he used to commit robberies every year.
He used to gather a lot of money from one robbery every year, which lasted him the entire year.
He used to purchase those rare books with the assistance of an agent.
Despite being good and respected, he was not entirely honest.
Horace Danby never acted in haste.
He was confident that the latest robbery at Shotover Grange would be as successful as his previous ones.
He knew the two servants at the Grange had gone out to the movies.
He found out where the safe was through an article in a magazine.
In the safe, he expected to find jewellery worth fifteen thousand pounds, and if he sold each piece one by one, he would have enough money to buy three books.
As he was always careful not to leave any fingerprints, he opened the door with gloves on when he saw the house keys hung by the kitchen door on a hook outside.
In a magazine article, he read about the house, so he knew that the safe was located in the drawing room, behind a painting.
The flowers kept in a bowl on the table caused him to sneeze when he entered the drawing room, but he managed to control himself.
After cutting off the burglar alarm, Horace returned to the drawing room and sneezed loudly again.
He then heard the voice of a lady asking if it was cold or hay fever.
Horace immediately replied ‘Hay fever’ without thinking.
In front of the doorway, Horace saw a young, pretty lady dressed in red.
As the lady walked down the fireplace and ordered house dog, Sherry to sit, Sherry rubbed against her in love.
Her speech was soft, but firm, and she said that it was good that she caught the burglar in time.
Having said that, Horace told her he didn’t expect anyone to be at home this time.
She told Horace she would give him to the police if he ran.
He promised her never to steal again and asked her to forgive him.
The lady refused to let Horace go even when he tried to persuade her to let him go.
She told him the society must be saved from men like him.
He must open the safe for her.
She needed the jewels for the night party.
Only then, she would allow him to go out of the house.
After opening the safe, Horace presented the jewels to the young lady.
He walked out happily.
Horace was arrested on the third day around noon.
As a result of his fingerprints left on the safe of Shotover Grange, he was arrested for the jewel robbery.
His gloves had not been worn during the opening of the safe.
Horace pleaded with the lady of the house that he had opened the safe for her.
Her gray-haired, sharp-tongued woman of sixty appeared as the real lady of the house and said that Horace’s story was nonsense.
As Horace Danby was in prison, the lady in red made off with the jewels, outwitted him completely.
As humans have endless needs, desires, wants, and wishes, they can never be satisfied simultaneously.
Satisfying one need gives size to another need.
Thus, in order to be successful, it is important to have continuous motivation.
This means that you cannot simply be motivated for a short period of time and then expect to be successful.
Instead, you need to find ways to keep yourself motivated on a daily basis.
Needs are deficiencies which are created whenever there is a physiological or psychological imbalance.
In order to maintain a high level of productivity, it is important for employees to feel motivated in their work.
This can be done through providing positive reinforcement, offering opportunities for advancement, and showing appreciation for good work.
Motivation is a psychological phenomenon that drives an individual to behave in a particular manner.
It is the passion to achieve something or the desire to succeed.
It is what drives us to do better and strive for greatness.
It is what motivates us to get up each day and face the challenges ahead.
Motivation is a psychological process that produces goal-directed behaviour.
It is the driving force behind all human activity and determines our level of effort and persistence.
It is what makes us do what we do.
Individuals are motivated by different things.
Without motivation, it would be difficult to set and achieve goals.
Also, motivation is necessary for maintaining focus and perseverance.
The needs of a person today may be different from the needs of tomorrow.
So, motivation is highly dynamic.
What motivates someone today may not motivate them tomorrow.
Therefore, it is important to understand that motivation is constantly changing and evolving.
The motivation may be financial or non-financial.
In any job, having motivation is key to maintaining productivity and doing your best work.
For some people, financial motivation is what drives them to do their best.
Others may be motivated by other factors, such as recognition, personal satisfaction, or helping others.
Two boys were shocked and surprised to see the footprints of a pair of bare feet which were not visible.
These footprints appeared fresh in the muddy street of London.
The astonished boys followed the footprints untill they got lighter and eventually faded away.
The footprints were of a brilliant scientist named Griffin, who discovered a drug through which he could become invisible.
Griffin was a brilliant scientist but a lawless person.
He had no conscience at all.
He swallowed some rare drugs and his body became transparent.
The landlord disliked him and tried to eject him.
In revenge, Griffin set his house on fire.
The drug could only make his body invisible and not his clothes.
So, to become completely invisible, he had to take off all his clothes.
After being invisible in the chilly weather of London, he broke into a store where he opened the boxes of clothes and wore all the clothes he liked.
He ate a good meal and sweets, and drank wine that he stole from the grocery.
Then, he dozed off on a heap of quilts.
He didn’t wake up until the assistants arrived the next morning.
When they came near, he panicked and began to run.
But he could become invisible only he was totally naked.
So he took off his newly found clothes.
Once more he became naked in the chill January air.
He ran to Drury Lane that is the hub of London’s theatrical world.
There he stole some clothes from a theatrical company to escape the cold.
Griffin covered up his invisible face with bandages.
He wore glasses, bushy side whiskers and a false nose to give his invisible face a shape.
He also wore a large hat to cover up his head.
Then to escape without being seen he attacked a shopkeeper from behind and stole all his money.
Griffin wanted to get away from the crowded London.
He came to the village of Iping.
He booked two rooms in a local inn.
The arrival of a stranger of such strange appearance became the talk of the people.
Mrs Hall tried to be friendly with her guest Griffin.
He told that he didn’t want to be disturbed.
He wanted to be alone.
She thought that her guest was an eccentric scientist.
She didn’t mind his strange habits and irritable temper.
Griffin’s cash finished.
He told a lie that he was expecting a cheque at any moment.
One early morning, the clergyman of the village and his wife, heard a noise and a clink of money from their study downstairs.
The clergyman armed himself with a rod and went downstairs with his wife to check who it was.
He asked the intruder to surrender.
He was surprised to see the room empty.
They looked under the desk, behind d the curtains and even up the chimney.
They found the desk open.
and the money was missing.
They were highly surprised, couldn’t understand anything.
The landlord and his wife, Mrs Hall woke up very early.
They found Griffin’s door wide open.
Usually, it was shut and locked.
They peeped around but found nobody in the room.
On opening the door, they saw the bandages and hat scattered on the bed.
By the cool bedsheet, they knew that the bed wasn’t used for a long time.
Suddenly, Mrs. Hall felt a sniff near her ear and the hat kept at the bed was thrown at Mrs. Hall’s face.
Then a chair flung at her.
This way, the husband and wife were thrown out of the room.
The strange activities in the room made Mrs. Hall believe the room was haunted by evil spirits and that Griffin was responsible for it.
The news spread in the entire town in no time and the villagers suspected Griffin of using black magic.
They also suspected him to be the burglar at the clergyman’s house as he had paid the remaining amount to Mrs. Hall in cash the same day.
The villagers reported the matter to the constable, Mr. Jaffers.
However, Mrs. Hall didn’t wait for the constable to arrive and she herself went into Griffin’s room to confront him about the flying chair and how he came out of an empty room and how he entered a locked room.
Villagers too gathered in the room to find answers to the strange events in the village.
Suddenly, Griffin shocked everyone when he removed his bandages and became a headless man.
Mr. Jaffers had his arrest warrant in his hand but still he couldn’t arrest the headless man.
Then Griffin took off all his clothes to become invisible and Mr. Jaffers couldn’t catch him.
He was knocked unconscious by Griffin.
Anybody who tried to catch him would get punches and kicks that seemed to come from nowhere as he wasn’t visible to anyone.
This way, Griffin escaped from there using his invisibility for his benefit.
A new theory of how cells function was presented by Richard H Ebright and his college roommate in the ‘Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences’ at the age of twenty-two.
This was the first time that the work of college students had been published by this important scientific journal.
For Richard Ebright, butterflies were his first achievement in science.
Ebright grew up in the city of Reading, Pennsylvania.
He was the only child of his parents.
As a child, he did not have much to do in his hometown, so he developed the hobby of collecting things.
His favorite things in his childhood were butterflies, rock fossils, coins, and star-gazing.
He was a brilliant student who received good grades.
Ebright’s mother kept him engaged in learning new things and wouldn’t let him sit idle.
When Ebright was in third grade, his father passed away.
His mother became his biggest support.
She bought him telescopes, microscopes, cameras, mounting materials, and other equipment.
The relationship between Ebright and his mother deepened when she began guiding him on different matters.
He collected all twenty-five butterfly species found around his hometown by the time he was in the second grade.
Then, his mother bought him a children’s book called The Travels of Monarch X.
In the book, monarch butterflies are described as migrating to Central America, which opened up the world of science to the eager collector.
In the book, readers were asked to tag butterflies for research by Dr Frederick, A Urquhart of the University of Toronto, Canada.
Ebright began raising butterflies to study butterfly migrations.
Taking the eggs from the female monarch, he would raise them in his basement for the rest of their lives.
In the seventh grade, he entered the County Science Fair and lost.
He was saddened by the experience.
It inspired him to pursue a competitive spirit.
Ebright’s eighth grade project centered around finding the cause of a viral disease that killed monarch caterpillars every few years.
As a science fair project, he tested the theory that viceroy butterflies copy monarchs because monarchs don’t taste good to birds the next year.
During the County Science Fair, Ebright won first place in the zoology division and third overall for his project, which proved viceroy butterflies taste good to birds.
As part of his second year high school project, Ebright researched the purpose of the 12 tiny gold spots on Monarch pupas.
These spots were thought to be just ornamental for the butterfly, but Ebright and his college mate discovered through their study that they produced hormones that allowed the pupa to fully develop.
At the county fair, Ebright won first place with this project, which qualified him to enter the International Science and Engineering Fair.
In the Zoology division, his project won third place.
He was also able to work at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research’s entomology department during the summer.
In the following year, Ebright showed that cells developed into butterfly wings from hormones derived from the golden spots of Monarch pupas.
A few years after finishing his undergraduate studies at Harvard University, he returned to the Agricultural Laboratory to study the cells of spots and discovered the hormone’s chemical structure.
After a year and a half, Ebright got an idea while studying the chemical structure of the hormone in the X-ray photo.
After examining the x-ray photo, he was able to answer the biggest biological puzzle.
In order to understand how cells can read DNA blueprints that control heredity, he published his entire study in detail in a paper with his college roommate, James R Wong.
The details included pictures of X-rays and plastic models.
In his later years, Ebright graduated from Harvard University with the highest honours, placing second in a class of 1510 students.
He then joined Harvard Medical School and continued to experiment and research on his theory of cells.
It would be a boon for science if the experiments proved the theory, since it would prevent many fatal illnesses.
Aside from his academic interests, Richard Ebright had other interests too.
He was a champion debater and public speaker.
He was also an expert canoeist.
He became an expert photographer, particularly of nature and science exhibits.
His social studies teacher, Mr Weiherer, had introduced Ebright to new ideas.
His competitive nature was not a negative one.
Ebright did not want to win for winning’s sake or to get a prize, but he wanted to be the best.
The characteristics of a great scientist were in him.
The book The Travels of Monarch X opened his eyes to science and motivated him to win for the right reasons.
He had a first-rate mind, was curious, and had the will to win.
His scientific curiosity had never been diminished.
The beautiful Matilda was born into a family of clerks by accident of destiny.
She was elegant and longed to live a luxurious lifestyle.
Despite her high expectations, Matilda was always unhappy with her life.
She married a middle-class clerk named M. Loisel, who used to work at the Board of Education.
Loisel had a moderate income, which prevented him from meeting his wife’s demands.
Matilda made her life miserable by complaining about everything.
One day, Mr Loisel, her husband, gave her a printed card.
It was an invitation to dinner organised by the Minister of Public Instruction where her husband worked.
He had hoped that his wife would be delighted to receive such an invitation.
But his wife threw the invitation upon the table with contempt.
She was impatient and complained that she had nothing to wear on such a great occasion.
Mr Loisel was silent now.
She told him calmly that she couldn’t go there without a proper dress.
He should give his card to a colleague’s wife who had a better dress than hers.
On hearing this, Loisel gave his 400 Francs to his wife to buy a new dress, which he saved for himself to buy a hunting gun.
The day of the ball came near.
Her dress was ready.
After a few days, Loisel saw the sad state of his wife.
On asking he learnt that Matilda was sad as she didn’t have any matching jewellery to wear to the ball.
Loisel advised her to wear natural flowers but Matilda didn’t like the idea.
Then Loisel asked her to borrow a piece of jewellery from her rich friend Madame Frostier.
Matilda liked the idea and she went to her school friend Frostier.
Frostier was a good and humble person.
She opened her entire collection of jewellery in front of Matilda to choose whatever she may like.
After looking at the shiny beautiful pieces, Matilda chose a beautiful set of diamond necklace.
Matilda was a great success at the ball.
She looked very pretty, elegant and graceful.
All men noticed her and wanted to be introduced to her.
They went back home.
She had a full view of herself in her glory in the mirror.
Suddenly, she uttered a cry.
Her necklace was not around her neck.
Loisel was worried.
They didn’t know even the cab number.
Perhaps the necklace was lost there.
Mr Loisel dressed himself and went out to search the necklace over the track.
He went to police, to cab offices and advertised in newspapers, offering a reward.
At the end of the week, they had lost all hope.
In a shop, they found that a similar diamond necklace was valued at forty thousand francs.
Mr Loisel possessed eighteen thousand francs which his father had left.
He borrowed the rest.
Then he went to the shop and deposited thirty six thousand francs and got the same kind of necklace as they had lost.
Madame Forestier got the necklace back.
Madame Forestier didn’t open the jewel box.
Then started the horrible life of necessity of Mr and Mrs Loisel.
She washed the dishes and linen.
She did all the household works.
They sent away their maid.
They rented some rooms in the attic.
The husband worked in the evening at some merchant’s office.
At the end of ten years, they paid all their debts.
She realised that a necklace had changed their lives.
One day, Matilda met her friend Madame Frostier, the same friend from whom Matilda borrowed the necklace for the ball.
Frostier was shocked to see the drastic change in Matilda’s appearance.
Matilda confessed that she had hard days because of her necklace.
Madame Forestier remembered the necklace she had given to her.
But she reminded Matilda that she had already returned that necklace.
Matilda told her that she had lost the necklace that Frostier lent her and that the couple had to spend the next ten years in extreme poverty to repay for the necklace that they had purchased and returned to Frostier.
Frostier felt sorry for them and revealed the truth about the necklace that the one she had lent to Matilda was a mere piece of cheap imitation jewellery that was not over 500 francs.
The narrator was a young student who recently completed his graduation with honours in law.
He got a job as a trainee in a law firm of repute where his work was to serve summons to the people of the city.
The narrator didn’t like his job as he had to experience the unpleasant city people who would occasionally beat him up for serving them summons.
He was even considered fleeing to his hometown.
The narrator rejoiced when he was sent out forty miles to a country town, New Mullion.
When the narrator reached the village, he felt very uncomfortable looking at the muddy streets and illmaintained rows of wooden shops.
He was to serve summons on a man called Oliver Lutkins.
Oliver was needed in a law case as a witness.
There he met a delivery man with a hack.
He was about forty, red-faced and cheerful.
He told that his name was Bill.
The lawyer told that he had come there to serve summons on a man named Oliver Lutkins.
Bill told that he had seen him an hour ago.
The narrator hired the hack at a rate of two dollars an hour.
The narrator was touched by the warmth and amicability of the hack driver.
The hack driver told the narrator that he owned a business called “William Magnuson Fancy Carting and Hacking” and his name was Bill Magnuson.
Bill first took the narrator to Fritz’s place.
Fritz told them that Oliver Lutkins was there a little while ago.
Perhaps he had gone to Gustaff’s barber shop.
They drove to the barber shop.
The barber said angrily that he had not seen Lutkins.
Then they came to the pool room.
They were told that Lutkins had just bought a pack of cigarettes and gone out.
The lawyer was impressed with Bill’s cooperation and help.
Then Bill drove to the mother’s farm.
Again they asked the same question about Oliver.
She shouted that she didn’t know anything about Oliver.
Bill pressed her to tell Oliver’s whereabouts.
He wanted to search the house.
She seized an iron bar from the stove and marched on them shouting.
She warned if they dared to search her house, she would burn them.
Bill asked the lawyer to get out of there as Oliver’s mother would murder them.
The narrator couldn’t trace Oliver Lutkins.
He returned disappointed.
At the office, everybody was annoyed by the narrator and thought that his career was finished even before commencing.
However, he was asked to go to New Mullion again the next day along with a person who knew Lutkins.
When both of them reached the New Mullion station, the narrator pointed ‘Bill’ out to his companion and told him that it was he who helped him search for Lutkins.
The companion was surprised.
He told that his name was not Bill but he was Oliver Lutkins himself.
He had worked with him.
When they serve the summons to ‘Bill’, he and his mother laughed at the narrator and mocked at him by offering him to have a cup of coffee at their neighbour’s house as they were the only family that missed seeing the narrator the previous day.
Rahul Vaidya has reacted to Preity Zinta's post about facing public harassment.
The singer wrote he has a similar story to tell but he won't share it because he'd be be judged.
“Tommy found a real book!” wrote Margery in her diary on 17 May 2157.
Margery’s grandfather told her that his grandfather gifted him that book when he was a little boy.
The pages of the book were yellow and crinkly.
Both Margery and Tommy felt surprised to see still words instead of the moving ones.
Tommy was thirteen, and Margery was eleven.
Tommy told Margery that he had found the book in the attic and it was about school.
Margery told Tommy that she hated school.
She failed again and again in her school.
Margery’s teacher was a little red-faced man (a robot).
He had a big screen where all the lessons were shown.
What Margery hated about him the most was the slot where she had to put her homework.
The mechanical teacher calculated the marks in no time.
The Inspector that her mother summoned after she failed repeatedly told her mother that it was not Margery’s fault.
Margery was sad as she had expected the Inspector to take away the teacher altogether.
Evelyn Glennie was deaf.
She was seventeen years old and was nervous as it was her first day at the prestigious Royal Academy of Music in London.
Being deaf was a challenge for her.
Evelyn became deaf gradually because, according to her mother, she could barely hear at the age of eight, and year after year, she became deaf.
She suffered from severe nerve damage.
Evelyn’s obsession with music encouraged her to play the xylophone.
All the teachers discouraged her because of her hearing problem, but Ron Forbes (a percussionist and her teacher) helped her learn to sense music vibration with her body.
She was a huge success all across the United Kingdom.
She switched to solo performances at the age of sixteen and secured one of the highest marks in the Royal Academy of Music in London.
She became the world’s most sought-after percussionist and could play multiple musical instruments.
She also learned French and Japanese.
Music tingled her skin and hairs.
She also used to remove her shoes while playing to sense the coming vibrations of sound waves.
She was presented with the Royal Philharmonic Society’s prestigious Soloist of the Year Award.
She gave free performances in prisons and hospitals.
Evelyn was an inspiration for thousands and millions of disabled people all over the world.
Pungi (a musical instrument) had an unpleasant sound, so a barber modified its structure and designed a new instrument.
It had seven holes, and a melodic sound was produced when the player blew the air.
It was named Shehnai.
The sound was very musical and impressed everybody.
Soon, it became an integral part of every auspicious event.
Bismillah Khan is remembered as a man who brought Shehnai to the limelight.
At the age of five, Bismillah Khan played Gilli-Danda in Dumraon, Bihar.
He used to play Chaita in the Biharji Temple and would receive a laddu of 1.25 Kg as a reward from the local Maharaja.
He received Bharat Ratna at last by the Indian Government.
He was born on 21 March 1916.
His grandfather Rasul Bux Khan was a Shehnai player of the king’s court.
His father, Paigamber Bux, also belonged to the same profession.
Bismillah Khan’s obsession with Shehnai came when her mother took her to his maternal uncle’s house.
Soon, Bismillah Khan started to accompany his uncle, Ali Bux, to the temple.
When his maternal uncle played Shehnai, Bismillah Khan would sit for hours watching him play.
At 14, he went to the Allahabad Music Conference, and Ustad Faiyaz Khan patted his back.
In 1938, with All India Radio’s opening, Bismillah Khan was often the most heard Shehnai player on the radio.
After the Indian independence, Bismillah Khan played Raag Kafi from the Red Fort to an audience that included Jawahar Lal Nehru.
Bismillah Khan also played Shehnai abroad.
His first abroad visit was to Afghanistan, where King Zahir Shah gifted him many expensive things.
He also excelled in Bollywood.
He became the first Indian to perform at the Lincoln Centre Hall in the United States of America.
He also took part in the World Exposition in Montreal, in Cannes Art Festival, and the Osaka Trade Fair.
An auditorium in Teheran was also named after him.
He was given many national awards.
He was awarded the Bharat Ratna in 2001, and in his speech, he said that we should teach our children music as it was India’s richest tradition.
He was offered a top position in a music school in the USA but declined the offer.
He only yearned for Benaras and Dumraon.
He passed on 21 August 2006 at the age of ninety.
She feared her father the most.
As he would depart after giving her a casual kiss, she would feel relief.
In the evening, he ordered his mother to bring his papers and tea.
Her mother told her to take of her father’s boot.
She stuttered in front of her father because she was too careful to speak.
Kezia (the little girl) was not expressing herself fully.
According to Kezia, her father was so enormous and gigantic.
On Sunday, Kezia’s grandmother would send her to talk with her father and mother, but Kezia would find her mother reading and her father sleeping every time.
She would sit for some time on the stool until her father woke up.
He told her that she looked like an owl.
One day, her grandmother told her that it was her father’s birthday next week and suggested that she gift her father a pin cushion.
Kezia stitched everything with the utmost difficulty.
She had no idea what to fill inside the cloth.
Her grandmother found some paper sheets, so she tore them into tiny pieces and filled the fabric.
That night, there was a massive noise inside the house.
The Port Authority speech of Kezia’s father was missing.
The family searched everything but all in vain.
Her mother asked her if she had seen any of the papers.
Kezia told her that she had torn all the documents and use them for her father’s birthday.
She was summoned by her father, who scolded her.
Kezia tried to explain, but he did not listen.
Finally, he beat her with a ruler.
Hours later, her grandmother tried to help her get through the trauma, and Kezia asked her an intriguing question.
Her grandmother advised her to sleep.
One day, her mother fell ill, and there was no one in the house except her cook Alice.
Kezia always slept with her grandma.
She was too afraid to be alone.
Alice told her to sleep.
In the dark, she had this nightmare of a butcher who came closer and closer with a grinning smile.
In the dark, suddenly, her father entered the room and asked if anything was wrong.
Her father took her to the big bedroom and cuddled her.
Kezia had this feeling that her father worked all day and was too tired to be Mr. Macdonald (a neighbour who played with his kids).
She also felt guilty for destroying her father’s speech.
She told her father that he had a big heart.
Albert Einstein’s mother thought he was a freak, but he was destined for greatness.
His playmates called him ‘Brother Boring’ as he did not know how to interact with his friends.
He started to talk at the age of twenty-two.
So, he most of the time alone.
Einstein was discouraged by his headmaster.
He learned to play violin and maintained this skill throughout his life.
The poem is not a result of the poet’s imagination.
It is a product of his actual visualization.
The poet expresses his feelings of solitude by saying ‘ I wandered as a lonely cloud’.
The reason behind his feeling of loneliness was the death of a beloved one, his brother.
Passing through a field beside the lake, he comes across a cluster of golden daffodils waving in the breeze.
Moreover, they were more isolated patch or scattered.
They were thousands and thousands in number dancing in the breeze.
Furthermore, the dancing, blinking flowers stretched endlessly along the shore.
Also, the shining waves of the lake danced beside the flowers.
The daffodils traced the water with their beauty.
Moreover, the poet says, the golden daffodils twinkled and stretched in an endless line like the stars in the Milky galaxy way.
It implies that the flowers seem heavenly as stars.
This made the poet very happy as he has never seen so many daffodils at one sight.
He enjoyed the company of flowers.
Furthermore, he keeps on starting that beautiful scene.
He couldn’t take off his eyes from the loveliness of daffodils.
However, he was unaware of the blessing that the scene would give him.
From that time, whenever he felt lonely or depressed, the scene of the beautiful daffodils strike his strikes.
Thus, his heart gets filled with immense pleasure and dances with the daffodils.
The plot is very simple.
It depicts the poet’s wandering and his spotting of a field of daffodils by a lake Also, the memory of the daffodils pleasures him and relieves him when he is alone, bored, or suffering from feelings of restlessness.
Moreover, the characterization of the surprising happening of a memory—the daffodils “flash upon the inward eye”, which is “the bliss of solitude”—is psychologically acute, but the poem’s major brilliance lies in the reverse personification of its initial stanzas.
The article on Daffodils Summary talks about how nature and memory were very close to the heart of romantic poets like Wordsworth.
Also, it has a message to praise the beauty of nature.
One who is close to nature and enjoys in its company never feel depressed or lonely.
Nature is the greatest gift or blessing to mankind.
It has the power to heal our miseries and make us lively again.
While roaming in the valley he suddenly sees a crowd, a host, of golden daffodils.
The words crowd and host mean a large number of people.
Hence the poet uses personification and attributes the human qualities to daffodils.
The poet calls daffodils golden rather than yellow in order to express their majesty and beauty.
According to the poet, he sees a large number of daffodils beside the lake, beneath the trees i.e.
along with the shores of the lake and below the trees because they are small.
The daffodils seem to be fluttering and dancing in the breeze.
Again the poet personifies the daffodils by showing them as flapping (wings of birds or in imaginations that of angels) and dancing (like humans) in the moving breeze.
The second stanza begins with the comparison between daffodils along the lake and stars in the Milkyway.
The poet says that the daffodils stretched in never-ending line along the margin of a bay.
The bay here refers to the lake.
According to the poet, the daffodils which covered the shore of the lake seemed to be unending like the stars in the sky and like them (the stars of Milkyway), they were too twinkling.
The phrase Ten thousand saw I at a glance is a hyperbole that means the poet saw a large number of daffodils which he could not count.
The daffodils were Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.
The word head here refers to the top flower part of the plant.
Sprightly dance means lively and jubilant dance.
The daffodils were thus moving their heads (flowers) in a rhythm which looked quite amazing and seemed to the poet as they were dancing.
In the fourth and final stanza, the poet says that while sitting on his couch (a kind of bench) and in vacant (when he is idle) or in pensive mood (when he is sorrowful), the memories of those daffodils flash upon his inward eye i.e.
his spiritual or the Romantic vision.
Their memory then becomes the source of joy in his solitude.
His heart is then filled with pleasure and dances with the daffodils.
Thus the memory of the daffodils becomes his companion in his solitude and taking away all his sorrows and boredom make his spirit dance with them.
The poet then talks of a bird who is limited to a narrow cage.
Such a bird can not see through his bars of rage.
Restriction from freedom fills us with hesitation towards life.
In such anger, one can not see ahead.
A bird inside the cage has no wings to fly because they are clipped and his feet are tied.
He can not go anywhere so he can use his mouth only which is free to sing.
It reminds us of the poet’s own life in which she faced so much but kept singing poems.
Again the poet compares the free bird to a caged bird who can only sing fearfully.
Due to the lack of freedom, most of the things from the outer world are unknown to the caged bird so he longs for them.
A song travels from place to place so the song of the caged bird can also be heard in distant hills.
It means, her claims for freedom through her poetry are now known in distant places too.
Here, the poet primarily draws out the fact that only in freedom, one can see the beauty of this world.
The free bird thinks of a comfortable breeze.
For him, the wind goes softly through trees.
He has good food ready to eat.
The fat worms are waiting for him on a beautiful lawn where he can freely fly and eat them.
He has the freedom to name his own sky.
The lack of freedom doesn’t allow a person to even name things for him.
The story started with a group of children with their families living on the planet Venus.
All the nine-year old children were eagerly waiting for one special event that is the viewing of the sun.
The sun came out on Venus every seven years and in all those seven years, there had been nothing but continuous and regular rain.
Finally, if the scientists’ prediction proved correct,  the sun was destined to come out that day.
None of the kids apart from Margot, who had moved to Venus from Earth five years ago, remembered the sun properly as they all had been mere two years old.
Margot remembered the sun distinctly, opposing to what the others believe the sun to actually be.
Margot remained aloof and depressed for being away from home and never fitting in.
However the news of the Sun coming out not only excited the children but also Margot.
She was very eager to see the sun, to feel the warmth of the sun.
But some mischievous classmates of her began to taunt her saying what the scientists had said was fake and soon they locked her in a cupboard.
But the scientists were not wrong.
For very soon, the rain stopped and from behind the clouds, out came the bright sun surrounded by the blue sky.
The kids shouted out excitedly and all rushed out to play and laugh under the sun.
As they were enjoying, one girl suddenly screamed and pointed in her outstretched hand a big raindrop.
All the children looked up at the sky just in time to see the sun disappear.
The rain again started falling and they all rushed inside.
As the enter the hallway, one student suddenly remembered Margot being locked away in the cupboard, deprived of having seen the sun.
They were all ashamed of the horrible trick that they played upon her.
All the students felt bad and no one wanted to approach her.
Very slowly they moved towards the cupboard and even more slowly they opened the door, letting Margot out.
One day it finally stopped raining on Venus.
The whole ground came to a standstill as if, in the midst of a film concerning an avalanche, a tornado, a hurricane, a volcanic eruption, something had gone wrong.
The silence felt by everyone was immense and unbelievable.
Then the door slid back and they all finally saw the sun.
It was the color of flaming bronze and it was very large.
The sky around it was a blazing blue tile color.
The children rushed out, yelling into the springtime.
They were all busy running, turning their faces up to the sky and feeling the sun on their cheeks like a warm iron.
The children all agreed that it was much better than the artificial sun lamps.
The entire jungle that covered Venus was soon filled with children, all laughing and enjoying the sun.
The children lay out, laughing, on the jungle mattress and heard it sigh and squeal under them resilient and alive.
The children ran among the trees, they played hide and seek and tag, but mostly they kept on looking at the sun.
They listened to, looked at and savored everything.
Like wild animals, they ran underneath the sun.
After seven years of continuous rain, the sun felt like a fresh release to them and they din’t want to miss a single moment of it.
The fresh air amidst all the yellow-ness and blueness was like a breath of freedom and happiness for the children.
Margot, a nine year old girl, was very different from the others.
She could feel and understand what the others were undergoing.
Sometimes, at night, she heard them stir, in remembrance, and she knew they were dreaming and remembering gold or a yellow crayon or a coin large enough to buy the world with.
She was also quite good with words.
When they were asked in class to write small poems or stories about the sun, she wrote I think the sun is a flower, That blooms for just one hour.
Her fellow classmates had a hard time believing whether it was really her who wrote it.
Margot was a very fragile girl who looked as if she had been lost in the rain for years and the rain had washed out the blue from her eyes and the red from her mouth and the yellow from her hair.
She was an old photograph dusted from an album, whitened away, and if she spoke at all her voice would be a ghost.
She stood away from all the students and in turn, no would play games with her or even talk to her anymore.
She played no games with them also.
She barely did what the others found joy in.
When the class sang songs about happiness and life and games her lips barely moved.
Only when they sang about the sun and the summer did her lips move.
Maybe she was different because she was finding it hard to adjust in Venus.
According to her, her biggest crime was to move from Earth, five years ago, where she used to live and play under the sun.
In this new life, she barely fitted in.
Unlike the other kids on Venus who had seen the sun last when they were only two years old, Margot lived under the sun in Ohio for years.
That was her home.
The Sun was her solace and now she was deprived of all that.
Her parents were finally taking her back to the Earth next year which everyone thought vital, even if it meant loss of thousands of dollars to the family.
The children playing the trick on her and locking her in the cupboard showed how lonesome and unhappy she was in Venus.
She didn’t want to fit in either.
She just wanted to be back to her home, under the Sun like she was before.
Once, the dog began looking for a master.
When he encountered a wolf, he asked if he could be the dog’s master.
The wolf accepted without hesitation, and as they walked down the jungle path, the wolf leaped off the path and hid amid the bushes deep inside the forest.
The dog inquired as to what or who the wolf was so afraid of?
The wolf alerted the dog that there was a bear out there who may eat them both.
After seeing that the bear was stronger than the wolf, the dog opted to serve the bear.
The bear offered the dog to accompany him in hunting cows so that they could both eat to their hearts’ content.
A loud noise halted them as they approached the cattle.
The bear bolted and took shelter in the trees.
The bear explained to the dog that the terrifying roar was caused by a lion who was the king of the forest and was the most powerful creature on the planet.
The dog eventually became the lion’s servant.
No one tried to harm or insult him while he was in the lion’s company, he was content.
The lion and the dog were wandering through the forest one day.
The lion suddenly came to an abrupt pause and slammed his paw into the ground in rage.
After that, he went away silently.
The dog inquired to find out if something wasn’t right.
The lion warned the dog that he could sense a ‘Man’ approaching them and that they should flee and hide.
Soon, the dog wished the lion farewell because he wished to serve a master who was the most powerful being on the planet.
The dog eventually found the ‘Man’ and stayed with him, serving him faithfully.
Since then, the dog has been Man’s most devoted and faithful servant, knowing no other master.
The dog gave up his independence in exchange for safety and comfort that man could provide to him.
Without a doubt, man treats his dog as if it were his own, demonstrating that choosing man as his master was the finest choice the dog could make.
This is the story of how dog came to be Man’s most loyal companions.
A man was walking from Jerusalem to Jericho when he was suddenly accosted by two thieves who thrashed him and took everything he owned, including the clothing on his back.
The man was lying on the side of the road, bleeding.
When a priest spotted the wounded man, he intervened.
Instead of helping the injured man, the priest swiftly backed away and proceeded on his way.
Then another man came along and spotted the victim, who was covered in blood, laying in the mud.
Because of his dreadful situation, the man feared to touch him and walked away.
Eventually, a good Samaritan appeared on the site of the incident.
He approached the man and gently washed him with water, as well as gave him some water to drink.
He used a little alcohol to disinfect the wounds and speed up the healing process.
The Samaritan rode his donkey and dragged the man back to town.
Despite the fact that the injured man was a Jew, the Samaritan helped and rescued him.
For hundreds of years, Jews and Samaritans had been rivals.
The Samaritan offered the innkeeper some money and requested him to provide a clean bed and proper care for the man until he recovered his strength.
After reciting the parable, Jesus Christ asked his apostles (disciples) which of the three men was the genuine neighbour of the robbed man.
An expert in Jewish law instantly said that the robbed man’s genuine neighbour was the one who saved him.
Then, Jesus taught them to go out and do the same, that is, to help their fellow humans.
The Invisible Man is a science fiction novella by, Herbert George Wells, regarded as the Father of Science Fiction.
First serialised in Pearson’s Weekly in 1897, The Invisible Man was published in the same year, under the title, The Invisible Man: A Grotesque Romance and became an instant hit.
The novel is the story of Griffin, a young scientist, who creates a serum that makes things invisible.
He uses it on himself and realizes that he has found the key to invisibility.
However, the tragedy is it that he is unable to enjoy it because of his inability to reverse the results of the serum.
The Invisible Man is considered a masterpiece of science fiction.
A stranger arrives at the town of Iping on a cold February day, and asks for a room and a fire in the ‘Coach and Horses’ inn.
Mrs Hall, the innkeeper, shows him the guest parlour gladly as visitors are rare in winter and the stranger doesn’t even try to haggle over the prices.
She serves him lunch and observes that he is strangely dressed, with big blue glasses that hide half his face.
The rest of his face is completely covered with white bandages and he covers the lower half of his face with a serviette (a piece of cloth or paper used at meals for protecting one’s clothes and cleaning one’s lips and fingers) when he talks to Mrs Hall during lunch.
The only part of his face that is visible is his pink nose.
He also wears gloves and a velvet jacket with a high collar.
Mrs Hall assumes that the stranger must have been in a bad accident, but he does not respond properly when she tries to draw him into conversation.
He is only interested in knowing if she can arrange for his things to be brought from the station at Bramblehurst.
Mrs Hall tells him it can only be arranged to be brought by the next day at the earliest, but feels snubbed by him when she tries to ask him about the accident.
She leaves him alone for the rest of the afternoon.
At tea time, Teddy Henfrey arrives to fix the clock in the parlour where the stranger is.
Mrs Hall leads him into the room, where she finds the stranger dozing on the armchair before the fire.
He gives Mr Henfrey permission to fix the clock and asks Mrs Hall about his luggage again, to which she responds a little coldly.
He explains that he is an experimental investigator, and hence, needs his equipment at the earliest; that he had an accident which had left his eyes sensitive and this is why he requires darkness and solitude.
Once again, he cuts off Mrs Hall before she can ask any questions.
Mrs Hall leaves and Mr Henfrey delays fixing the clock so that he can get a better look at the stranger.
But the man gets angry as he realizes what Mr Henfrey is doing and tells asks his him to hurry up.
Mr Henfrey repairs the clock and leaves, feeling irritated and snubbed.
He meets Mr Hall in the town and he tells him about the stranger, and warns him that he seems like a suspicious character, perhaps a criminal in disguise.
He advises Mr Hall to be careful and warns that Mrs Hall is too trusting.
However, when Mr Hall reaches home and tries to question his wife, she is not willing to listen to him and asks him to mind his own business.
The next day, the stranger’s luggage arrives in Fearenside’s cart.
Mr Hall observes that it is a very strange mix of objects.
In addition to the regular luggage of a couple of trunks, there are also boxes with big books, and many crates and boxes containing unknown objects packed in straw.
The stranger, covered from head to toe, comes out to oversee the unloading of the cart.
As soon as Fearenside’s dog sees him, it starts growling and attacks the stranger.
Fearenside’s dog tries to bite him on the wrist and when he kicks it, it bites him on the leg, ripping the trouser.
Fearenside then manages to control the dog and the stranger rushes off to his room.
When Mr Hall follows and tries to enter his room to see if he is all right, the stranger shoves him out of the room and slams the door.
He appears at the front door a few minutes later, claiming to be unhurt, and demands angrily that the luggage be unloaded quickly.
He begins unpacking with great haste in the parlour and it is revealed that all the six crates have many bottles, of all shapes and sizes and containing powders, poisons and liquids, packed in straw.
Once the unpacking is over, he starts working very seriously and doesn’t pay attention to the straw strewn around the room or anything else.
This annoys Mrs Hall but he impatiently offers to pay her for the mess he has created.
Later, Fearenside is heard telling Henfrey that the stranger is a black man because when the dog ripped off the stranger’s trousers, Fearenside could not see pink skin, only blackness.
The next few months pass without incident and Mrs Hall is more or less satisfied with the stranger because he settles his bills promptly, although Mr Hall has more reservations about him.
The stranger is of a moody and irritable nature, but kept to himself, only going out for long walks in the evening, fully covered regardless of the weather.
His reserved nature makes the villagers curious about him, leading to speculation and gossip that he was a criminal in disguise, and other theories.
Finally, one of the villagers, the physician named Cuss, tries to satisfy his curiosity by approaching the stranger with some excuse.
But after the interview at the inn, Mrs Hall sees him rushing out looking white-faced and shocked.
Cuss goes to Mr Bunting, the vicar and tells him the strange story of his meeting with the stranger.
He tells him how he approached him with the excuse of collecting funds for the Nurse Fund, and during the conversation that followed, the stranger agitatedly revealed that he was working because he had accidentally burned a five-ingredient prescription.
In the course of the conversation, the stranger pulled his hand out of his pockets and Cuss saw that the stranger had no hand but the cuff of his shirt was filled, as if there was a hand there.
The stranger then laughed and reached out and touched Cuss with what felt like his hand, even though there was nothing visible.
Mr Bunting agrees that the story is indeed remarkable but doesn’t look fully convinced.
The burglary at the vicarage takes place in the early morning on Whit Monday.
Mrs Bunting wakes up when she hears noises in the house and so she wakes her husband up too.
They get out of the room to investigate, armed with a poker.
They see that there is someone in the downstairs study which has their household money, and hear the sound of a match being lit.
However, when they rush in to confront the robber, the room is empty, although the candle is lit and their money is gone.
They are puzzled, and then they hear sneezing and the back door slamming open and shut, but they still cannot see anyone.
The same morning, Mr and Mrs Hall wake early for some work in the cellar where they brew their beer.
Mr Hall notices that the stranger’s door is ajar and later, that the front door is unbolted though it was bolted the previous night.
He knocks on the stranger’s door and when there is no answer, he enters.
He finds that the room is empty but the stranger’s things, including all his clothes are still there.
He fetches Mrs Hall, and on their way to examine the stranger’s room, they hear the front door open and shut but see no one.
As they look around the bedroom, the furniture suddenly go mad.
The clothes on the bed fling themselves at Mrs Hall and a chair chases them out of the room, banging the door shut behind them.
Mrs Hall almost faints, and is convinced that the room and the furniture must be haunted, and blames the stranger for it.
They fetch someone to try to exorcise the room but find that the door is locked from the inside.
As they debate breaking the door down, it suddenly opens, and to everyone’s surprise the stranger walks out, looking irritated as usual.
He refuses to answer any questions and locks himself into the parlour.
The stranger, after locking himself into the parlour early in the morning, remains there all day.
On hearing the news of the burglary in the vicarage, the Halls put two and two together and Mr Hall, along with Mr Wadgers, goes to look for the magistrate, while a curious crowd gathers in the inn and outside the stranger’s parlour window.
Meanwhile, Mrs Hall refuses to serve him any food, even though the stranger rings for it many times.
Finally, in the evening, he comes out of his parlour and demands food from Mrs Hall, who presents him with his bill and refuses to serve him unless he settles it.
Initially, he argues saying that his money has not arrived but later says that he might have still some in his pocket.
Mrs Hall, suspecting him of being behind the burglary, challenges him on how he got the money, and enraged, the stranger tells her that she doesn’t know who he is and begins pulling off everything that covers his face.
Then the horrified crowd realizes that he has no face, and in fact, is headless!
Everybody panics and runs out of the inn and a large crowd begins gathering outside the entrance of the inn.
When Mr Hall, Mr Wadgers and Mr Jaffers, the constable, return, they enter the stranger’s parlour and try to arrest him, despite the fact that he is headless.
The stranger resists and gets into a scuffle with Jaffers, at the end of which he nevertheless surrenders, and pulls of his gloves revealing that he has no hands.
Jaffers is unable to cuff him as he can’t see his hand.
The stranger then defends himself saying that being invisible is no crime so he shouldn’t be arrested, but Jaffers shows him the warrant for his arrest in connection with the burglary at the vicarage.
At this point, the stranger begins undressing, revealing that he is invisible under the clothes, and Jaffers realizes that he is trying to escape.
The men try to stop him but he is extremely strong, and they are unable to fight an enemy that they cannot see.
Finally, they chase the stranger out of the inn and Jaffers catches hold of him but the Invisible Man pushes him off.
Jaffers falls on the ground and hits his head on the gravel.
The crowd outside the inn scatters and people panic, but Jaffers remains quite still on the ground.
A man named Gibbons, who is lying in the open countryside and enjoying the solitude with not a soul around, suddenly hears someone sneezing, coughing and swearing savagely.
He looks around, but is startled to see no one; his peace is broken and he hurries back to his village.
Mr Thomas Marvel is a large, slow-moving tramp, who is sitting outside the town of Adderdean, staring at his two pairs of boots which are in front of him.
He hears a voice from behind him, and he has a small conversation about how ugly the boots are, but when he looks back and realizes that there is no one behind him, he begins to panic and doubt his own sanity.
The voice continues talking and then starts throwing flints at Marvel in order to convince him that he is not insane or imagining the voice, and introduces itself as an invisible man.
Mr Marvel is finally convinced and the Invisible Man tells him that he could have killed him but he spared him because he felt Marvel, like him, was an outcast from society.
By intimidating him this way, and telling him that he had great power, he makes Marvel promise to help him out.
The scene shifts back to Iping, where the celebrations for Whit Monday are continuing despite the strange events of the morning.
Very few people have actually witnessed the Invisible Man’s unveiling and so there is growing doubt regarding the rumours about what happened at the ‘Coach and Horses’.
People go on with their preparations for the celebrations, and only Jaffers is missing as he is still lying unconscious after the attack in the morning.
At four o’clock, some people in the village observe a short, stout stranger enter the village wearing an extraordinary hat and talking to himself.
The actions of this man is revealed to us through Mr Huxter’s gaze, who watches him enter the ‘Coach and Horses’ and go into the parlour.
When Mr Hall calls out to him that it is private, the man enters the bar, has a drink and reappears to go into the yard which has a window that leads to the parlour.
After smoking his pipe for a couple of minutes, the stranger enters the parlour through this window and reappears with some books in one hand and other things bundled into a table cloth in his other hand.
Mr Huxter, realizing that this was a robbery, tries to stop the man, but someone he cannot see grabs him by his shins and throws him into the air, and he falls to the ground with great force.
At the inn, Mr Cuss and Mr Bunting are in the parlour, examining the Invisible Man’s things, and Mrs Hall has cleared the stranger’s clothes from the room and tidied up.
Cuss and Bunting find a book marked “Diary”, but it is written is some strange code, in a combination of mathematical symbols and what looks like Russian and Greek.
Mr Cuss asks Mr Bunting to interpret the Greek part of it, but Bunting does not want to reveal that he has no knowledge of the language.
During their conversation, it is revealed that Bunting is sceptical about the events of that morning and the possibility of an actual invisible man existing.
As he pretends to read the diary, however, they are both suddenly held down by the neck by an invisible force and a voice that demands to know where its clothes are.
The Invisible Man then threatens to attack them with the poker if they don’t sit quietly.
The reader is now given an account of these events from the perspective of Mr Hall and Henfrey who are discussing the events of the morning.
They suddenly hear thudding and other stranger noises from the parlour and they stand outside the door and call out, asking if everything is all right.
They hear Mr Bunting’s voice replying that everything is fine and that they should not interrupt, then the same voice raised in protest.
Mr Hall and Henfrey are intercepted and scolded by Mrs Hall for being a nuisance but when they explain, she refuses to believe that something is wrong.
Then Henfrey thinks he hears the parlour window opening and they hear Mr Huxter yelling for the thief to stop.
Mr Hall, Henfrey and two of the labourers in the bar of the inn rush out, chasing the stout stranger, convinced for some reason that he is the Invisible Man.
But before they get very far, they are all attacked by an invisible force.
Hearing the commotion, the people of the village come out of the field where the Whit Monday celebrations are taking place and see the men sprawled on the ground.
Great confusion ensues as more and more people are attacked by the Invisible Man, who seems to have lost all control and is in a rage.
Meanwhile, Mrs Hall is still at the inn and Mr Cuss appears from the parlour wearing a strange costume.
He tells her with great agitation that the Invisible Man has taken his trousers and all of the vicar’s clothing!
Cuss exits the inn but when he realizes that the Invisible Man is in a rage and attacking everybody in his path, he rushes back into the parlour where Mr Bunting is also trying to cover himself with a rug and a newspaper.
He tells him that the Invisible Man is coming and alarmed, they both jump out of the window to escape him.
The people of Iping are all afraid of the Invisible Man’s attack and in panic, try to find places to hide from him.
The man, meanwhile, goes around attacking people at random and breaking them windows of the inn and wrecking various things in Adderdean too.
When the narrative resumes, Mr Marvel and the Invisible Man are walking through the woods on the way to the town of Bramblehurst.
Mr Marvel is still carrying the bundle and appears to be hurt, and from the conversation it is revealed that the Invisible Man thought Mr Marvel was trying to run away with his things and hurt him.
Mr Marvel seems extremely unwilling to work for the Invisible Man, and tells him that he has a weak heart and is not suited for the kind of help that the Invisible Man needs.
But the Invisible Man refuses to let him go, telling him that he is his only tool, even if he is a weak one.
He constantly bullies and threatens Mr Marvel, telling him that he will be sorry if he doesn’t help him.
They pass through a village, with the Invisible Man holding Mr Marvel by the shoulder to prevent him from trying to run off again.
At ten the next morning, a dusty, exhausted Mr Marvel is found sitting on a bench outside an inn in Port Stowe.
The Invisible Man has abandoned the bundle in the table-cloth, so now Mr Marvel only has the books.
A mariner comes up to him and begins to make conversation about strange news in the newspaper.
He tells Mr Marvel the story of the Invisible Man as reported in the paper, in full detail, and Mr Marvel is anxious of being identified but realizes that he has not been described in the newspaper article.
He keeps an ear out for the Invisible Man but when he thinks he is safe, he begins to tell the mariner that he knows some information about the Invisible Man.
But before he can reveal it, he jumps up and announces he has a toothache and clutches at his ear.
He gathers the books and as he leaves, he is prompted by the Invisible Man to tell the mariner that it is all a hoax and that he knows the man who started the rumour.
The mariner is irritated with Mr Marvel for letting him tell him the whole story when Mr Marvel knew it already, instead of stopping him right at the beginning.
Later, the mariner hears of the rumours of ‘floating money’, fistfuls of money that are found floating by themselves in various places, from shops and inns and banks, and of people who try to catch them being attacked by a mysterious force.
The mariner realizes only much later that this money must have ended up in Mr Marvel’s pocket, and that he had a brush with the Invisible Man.
The reader is introduced to Dr Kemp, a tall, blond, slender scientist, who is resting in his study near the town of Burdock.
He is an ambitious young man of science, and suddenly, he catches sight of a man, who the reader recognizes as Mr Marvel, running very fast down the hill at a distance.
Dr Kemp is irritated at the sight, as it reminds him of the panic around the rumours of the Invisible Man, which he finds unscientific and medieval.
Those who see the running man nearby, however, realize that he is extremely panicked and feel only sympathy for him, despite the heavy purse full of money that he carries, and begin uneasily to wonder what he is running from.
Behind Marvel, there are sounds of someone chasing, but no one is to be seen, and soon word reaches the town even before Mr Marvel that the Invisible Man is coming, causing great fear and panic.
Mr Marvel arrives in complete panic at an inn named the ‘Jolly Cricketers’ at the bottom of the hill, where the barman is in conversation with a cabman and an American with a local policeman.
Mr Marvel screams that the Invisible Man is after him and that they should lock the door and protect him.
Mr Marvel then hides in the bar and the men lock all the other doors, unlocking only the front door.
Arming themselves, they wait for the Invisible Man to enter.
Instead, another cabman enters and tells them that the yard door is unlocked and the Invisible Man might have already entered the building.
Soon afterwards, the bar door is forced open and Mr Marvel is pulled away by an invisible force and dragged into the kitchen.
The policeman, barman and cabman enter the kitchen and almost manage to overpower the Invisible Man but he goes berserk and fights them all and manages to get away, entering the narrow yard.
The American fires five shots into the yard with his revolver, and is certain that he must have shot the Invisible Man.
He asks the others to look for his body in the yard.
Dr Kemp hears the shots being fired from where he is working in his study and it disturbs him so much that he is not able to concentrate on his work for the rest of the day.
He hears the bell ring and the maid answers it but when he asks her she says that there was no one at the door.
He finally gets back to his work and decides to go to bed at two in the morning.
While getting a drink from the kitchen, he notices dried blood on the floor and finds that the door handle of his room is also bloodstained.
He enters the room and finds a lot of blood on the sheets and hears a noise in the room, and then someone says his name.
The Invisible Man suddenly begins talking to him and Dr Kemp is extremely startled and.frightened.
Finally, the Invisible Man manages to calm him enough to ask him for some help as he is tired, hurt and hungry.
It so happens that they already know each other and the Invisible Man was Dr Kemp’s junior at the university.
For the first time, he introduces himself by name, which is Griffin.
He explains that a man stole his money and that some stranger shot him because everyone is afraid of him.
He demands some food and clothes from Dr Kemp, who gives him a robe and food from the pantry.
Griffin smokes a cigar after finishing his meal.
Dr Kemp is startled by his tale and wants to know from where Griffin got the money that was stolen; he is also eager to know how Griffin became invisible but he is too tired to tell him anything.
The Invisible Man wants to sleep but even though Kemp assures him that he would be safe, the Invisible Man is scared of being caught and doesn’t want to trust Dr Kemp.
The Invisible Man, despite being suspicious of Dr Kemp, still needs sleep.
So, he goes to sleep after locking himself inside Dr Kemp’s room, who goes to the dining room and stays up all night thinking and talking out loud to himself.
He spots the newspaper that is lying in the room and reads the reports in it about the strange events in Iping.
At the end of it, he concludes that the Invisible Man must be not just mad but also homicidal.
The household staff arrive meanwhile and much to their surprise, he asks them to set breakfast for two.
He reads in the newspaper about the events of the previous day and about Mr Marvel, although there is no mention of money or the books.
He concludes that the Invisible Man is mentally disturbed and sends off a note to someone, just as the man upstairs wakes up in a foul mood.
Griffin smashes Kemp’s chair because he wakes up in a bad temper, but Kemp doesn’t object and instead leads him to the room upstairs for breakfast.
Finally, Griffin begins his story about how he gave up medicine because of his interest in science and in particular the theories of optics.
He worked under a provincial professor against whom he guarded his work carefully.
Griffin realized that the only way matter could become invisible is if it neither reflects, refracts nor absorbs light, i.e., if the refractive index of the object is the same as the air around it; and that the human body is capable of this.
The only part of the human body that has colour and therefore cannot do this is the blood and hair, which have pigments.
After six years of secret research, however, Griffin found a way to make blood transparent and yet he is at a dead end because of lack of money.
At this point, he reveals that he stole the money he needed from his father, who had borrowed it from someone else and therefore killed himself when it was lost.
Griffin went ahead and bought the equipment he needed with his father’s money and gave the man a very cheap funeral, and he does not have any sympathy for him because of his ‘sentimentality’.
He went back to his lab where he felt at home and where he figured out how to complete his experiment.
The only thing he reveals to Dr Kemp is that the object whose refractive index is to be reduced must be kept between two vibrating centres of a new kind of vibration.
He experimented with wool fabric first, then with a cat that entered his room.
The experiment was not wholly successful as the back of the cat’s eyes never became fully invisible.
The owner of the cat had come looking for it, but she could not see it in his room, so she left.
After the success of the experiment, Griffin did not know what to do with himself, and his money was running out.
The landlord then arrived and revealed that the cat’s owner suspected Griffin of torturing his cat in the night.
He wanted to look around the room and asked a lot of questions, so Griffin threw him out of the room.
Understanding that now the time had come to act quickly, he began the process of becoming invisible himself.
The process of turning the blood colourless is, however, very painful and he became very weak.
He had to force himself to finish the process and when he was halfway through it, he was interrupted by the landlord who was horrified to see that Griffin’s face was completely white, like stone!
He went away in a hurry and Griffin completed the process, and became fully invisible.
By that time, the landlord returned with his sons and tried to break into the room, while Griffin hid on the ledge outside the window.
They were unable to locate him because of his invisibility and were also not able to understand what the equipment in his room was for.
Finally, Griffin escaped from there, but admits quite openly that he set the house on fire, and in response to Dr Kemp’s exclamation of horror, he says that the house was probably insured; and that this was the only way to destroy all the evidence.
Griffin describes his first experiences upon becoming invisible.
He felt a great sense of power and exultation when he realized the things he can do with invisibility but very soon discovered the problems it brought.
Although he was tempted to play pranks on people, he realized how dangerous it could be when someone accidentally knocked into him with a heavy basket.
Griffin had grabbed it spontaneously but this caused so much uproar that he realized he would be discovered very soon unless he was careful.
He also found that being naked and wandering around in the cold of January was very uncomfortable and that dogs could sense him with their noses even though he was invisible.
He wandered around the town and was almost discovered by a group of young men who saw his footsteps in the snow, appearing mysteriously.
He was chased, but he lost them in the crowd and made sure thereafter that he travelled only on the small, empty side roads.
Suddenly, there were shouts and he looked back and realized that it was a fire—the fire he had set to bum his own clothes and equipment.
The Invisible Man then tells Kemp about his dilemma as he was out in the open in the cold weather, with no shelter or clothing.
Finally, an idea struck him and he made his way to the emporium named Omnium which sold many different kinds of things.
He managed to slip into the shop and found a hiding place among a pile of mattresses,’and waited for a chance to rob the store of some clothes that would make him look somewhat human at least.
Once the shop had shut and all the employees had put away the things on display and had left, Griffin began to prowl around, looking for the things he needed.
He found clothes to cover every inch of his body except the eyes, found a fake nose in the toys section and food in the refreshment sections.
He also took money from one of the counters and feeling well-fed and warm for the first time in a while, he went to sleep among the mattresses.
He dreamt strange dreams of being buried in his father’s grave as he was invisible, and woke to find that the shop had opened.
Since he was fully dressed, he was visible and quickly discovered and what followed was a chase around the store, from one department to the next, and Griffin managed to get away only by wounding his assailants.
Finally, he took off his clothes and became invisible again and managed to leave the store undetected, but once again vulnerable.
The Invisible Man thus began discovering the problems of being invisible and unnoticed: any food he ate would be visible till it was assimilated in his system and rain, snow, fog and accumulating dust would give him away.
He went back to the poorer section of the city and came across a costume shop with masks and wigs, which gave him an idea.
He entered the shop and planned to rob it of costumes and money.
The owner of the shop, however, proved more difficult to handle that he anticipated, for he was very alert and had very acute hearing.
So, he quickly grew suspicious of the little noises that Griffin made in moving around the house.
Griffin waited for him to settle down for the night and then began exploring the house, but forgot that he should not make much noise and so the owner of the house almost discovered him.
He started locking the doors of all the rooms in the house because of his suspicions, and when the Invisible Man realized that he would be locked in soon, he got violent, and hit the other man on the head and tied him up with a sheet.
When Dr Kemp expresses his moral objections to these actions, Griffin explains that such morals are for ordinary people and then begins to get irritated with Dr Kemp, who therefore calms down and talks to him in a softer tone.
Griffin goes on to narrate how he stole clothes and money from the man’s house, and although he looked hideous with the mask and wig, nobody took much notice of him.
He enjoyed the sense of power that being invisible gave him, and decided to live life as he liked it.
However, he ran into many unexpected difficulties that came from wanting to keep his invisibility a secret.
He finally worked out a plan, a chemical formula that will make him visible again when he wishes to, after finishing all he needs to do as an invisible man.
He says he will share the formula with Dr Kemp.
Therefore, to work it out properly, he bought the necessary equipment and came to Iping.
Griffin asks Dr Kemp if anybody had died because of his attack, and laughs and seems quite unrepentant when Dr Kemp tells him that people were seriously injured and not dead.
He complains about how everybody else is stupid and how frustrating this is for him.
When Griffin finishes his story, Dr Kemp asks him what his future plans are, and what he originally planned to do in Port Burdock.
Griffin tells him that he had originally planned to leave the country and go south, where the temperature would be better suited for him to wander about invisible, but now that he has run into Dr Kemp, his plans have changed.
He wants to get his books.
Dr Kemp tells him that Mr Marvel has surrendered himself for safe custody in the strongest cell of the prison there but he, Dr Kemp, might be able to retrieve Griffin’s books if Mr Marvel does not know he is working on Griffin’s behalf.
Meanwhile, there are sounds outside, and Dr Kemp realizes that the men he wrote the note to are arriving, and keeps the conversation with Griffin to prevent him from noticing their footsteps.
Griffin tells him that with Dr Kemp’s help, he will take over the town and then the country in a reign of terror as it is easy for him to attack and kill anyone as an invisible man.
As Dr Kemp objects to this, Griffin finally notices the noises in the house and realizes what has happened.
He calls Kemp a traitor and begins undressing, preparing to flee, but Kemp exits the room and tries to lock him in.
But the Invisible Man manages to break free just as Colonel Adye, the police chief that Kemp contacted, reaches the landing.
The colonel watches as Kemp is attacked by an invisible force and then he is also attacked viciously.
Finally, the Invisible Man runs down the stairs, past the constables downstairs and escapes from there.
Dr Kemp quickly gives Adye a gist of the Invisible Man’s story and warns him with great urgency that he must be caught at once, otherwise he would execute his plan of the reign of terror.
He tells Adye of the books that are the only things of value to Griffin, and that Mr Marvel and the books must be protected.
He tells Adye that all the houses must be locked in the town and no food should be easily available to Griffin.
He hopes for cold weather and rain and instructs Adye to set every man in the force to comb the area for Griffin so that he can neither eat, sleep nor rest.
Kemp also suggests that Adye finds dogs which can sniff out the Invisible Man, even if they can’t see him, and that all weapons must be hidden from him.
As a final, plan, Kemp asks Adye to cover the roads with powdered glass.
He admits that it is cruel but can think of no other way to stop a man like Griffin, who now seems to be beyond the reach of humane morality, and will kill anyone at will.
The Invisible Man then disappears from human contact for the whole afternoon as he tries to recover from his rage at Kemp’s betrayal.
Nobody sees or hears from him but this period of inaction works to his disadvantage as in that time, the news about him spreads like wildfire throughout the district, and people begin preparing to fight him.
Schools are shut early and common folk are advised to keep their doors locked.
Men gather together in twos and threes with dogs to beat the countryside looking for him.
Goods trains into and out of the district are suspended and passenger trains are locked during the journey.
From a rumour, the Invisible Man becomes a tangible threat that they must all struggle against.
The Invisible Man commits his first murder and the body of a man named Wicksteed, the steward of Lord Burdock, is found and it is clear from the state of his corpse that he must have been bludgeoned to death by an iron rod that is found nearby.
The story reconstructed from the crime scene is that Griffin must have pulled the iron rod out of a fence, meaning to use it as a weapon, and Wicksteed, perhaps not even knowing of the existence of an Invisible Man, saw the iron rod floating by itself as he was passing by and began following it.
At one point, Griffin probably found himself trapped between a bush of stinging needles and a gravel pit, with the middle aged man behind him.
In anger at being trapped, he must have gone wild and beaten up Wicksteed severely, killing him.
After this, he must have made his way into town and realized that the preparations are being made against him and read the notices put up everywhere.
After managing to find something to eat and resting through the night, though, he comes back in full strength and malignancy in the morning.
Dr Kemp receives a letter the next morning from Griffin, accusing him of betraying him and saying that Griffin would now go on a reign of terror for sure.
He says in the letter that he will begin by executing Dr Kemp and no matter however much he tries to hide or protect himself, he will be dead by the end of the day, which Griffin calls the First Day of the Terror.
Dr Kemp, however, sends notes through his maid to Adye and believes that this threat can become a trap to catch Griffin.
Adye arrives soon at the house and tells Dr Kemp that his maid was intercepted by the Invisible Man.
At this point, the windows in Dr Kemp’s house begin to be smashed one by one, but all the shutters are drawn so the glass falls outside.
Adye borrows Dr Kemp’s revolver and leaves the house to get help, but is stopped by the Invisible Man who takes the gun from him and asks him to return to the house.
Adye pretends to agree but tries to attack Griffin, who shoots him with the revolver.
Dr Kemp then hears the sound of wood being smashed and realizes that Griffin has found an axe and is forcing his’way through the kitchen window.
Two policemen arrive at the house at this point with the maid and Dr Kemp warns them of the danger.
Dr Kemp, the maid and the policemen wait for Griffin, armed with a poker.
When he arrives with his axe, he asks the policemen to stand aside and give him Kemp but they begin fighting him.
The first one tries to wound him with the poker, but he misses and Griffin hits him on the head with the axe.
The second policeman, however, finds his mark and wounds Griffin.
Griffin retreats into the hall, and the policemen realize that in the confusion Dr Kemp has escaped with the maid.
Mr Heelas, Dr Kemp’s neighbour, is a sceptic who does not believe in the rumours about the Invisible Man.
He wakes up from his afternoon sleep and finds that Dr Kemp’s house looks like it has been hit by a riot.
He then observes the maid and Kemp escaping through the window and finally understanding the situation, raises the alarm in his house so that all the doors and windows are locked.
He refuses to let Dr Kemp into the house, and so Dr Kemp begins to run down the hill towards the town.
When Dr Kemp reaches the town, people stare at him because of his strange haste and ignoring them, he runs towards the police station.
He hears footsteps behind him and calls out that the Invisible Man is after him.
He tries to disappear into the crowd and changes his course and takes a little side road.
When he emerges on the main street again, he sees there is a crowd chasing after someone, and suddenly, Kemp is struck by an invisible hand.
He is hit again and falls to the ground and feels a knee on his diaphragm and hands around his neck, gripping.
But the grip is weak and when Kemp catches hold of the wrists, there is an exclamation and his attacker pulls back.
By this time, the crowd reaches them and the Invisible Man is struck with a navvy.
Dr Kemp manages to then escape his clutches and pins him down.
The crowd surrounds them and begins to beat up Griffin.
Dr Kemp, realizing that he is hurt, yells for them to stop.
Somebody yells that Dr Kemp shouldn’t let him go as he is only pretending to be hurt.
Dr Kemp denies this and tells them that the man is not breathing.
Then, suddenly, the crowd sees the ghostly outline of a hand, and from there, slowly, Griffin becomes visible again.
The Invisible Man is finally revealed, and they see that he is a young man of thirty with the white hair of an albino.
His horrified eyes are open, and he is dead.
His body is covered up and he is taken into the ‘Jolly Cricketers’ inn.
The author advises the reader to go to the ‘Jolly Cricketers’ inn if he wants to know more about the Invisible Man.
The bartender there tells the whole story, and what happened after Griffin’s death when he was accused of keeping all the money that Griffin stole.
The author says that if the reader asks him about Griffin’s lost books, he will deny any knowledge of them.
But every night and every Sunday morning, the inn keeper goes into the bar parlour and after making sure no one can spy on him, he pulls out the three books of Griffin from a cupboard and looks through them.
Though he cannot understand a word of the cipher, it fills him with a feeling of wonder.
And nobody would be able to discover his secret as long as he lives.
Silas Marner does not belong to the city.
He is a linen-weaver and lives in the countryside, in the village of Raveloe.
Since he is the only weaver in the village, he gains importance among the villagers.
Marner is not rich, but at the same time, he is not poor.
However, it is not money or the lack of it that makes him unhappy.
People look down upon him as an outsider, as someone who cannot be trusted.
This attitude of the villagers disturbs Marner and he does not feel at home in Raveloe.
Things take a turn for the worse when Marner is suspected of being a witch doctor.
One day, Marner’s neighbour is sick and asks him for help.
Marner’s herbal treatment cures her.
But this leads the villagers to believe that there is indeed something supernatural or even evil about him.
Since Marner often experiences fits, the people suspect him even more.
To make matters worse, news reaches Raveloe that he had been thrown out of the religious sect to which he belonged in a place called Lantern Yard.
In Lantern Yard, Marner was a deeply devout Christian.
However, the senior deacon under the care of Marner died.
When the deacon’s money bag was recovered from Marner’s house and Marner’s pocket-knife was recovered from the Deacon’s bureau, he was accused of being a thief and thrown out of Lantern Yard.
His engagement to Sarah, an inmate in Lantern Yard, was broken and she, in turn, married Marner’s friend William.
In fury and despair Marner renounced his faith since he had eagerly hoped that God would come to his help.
In such a climate of distrust and dislike, Marner finds himself increasingly isolated and unwanted.
In Raveloe he works diligently, but loses every human connection with the village society.
He does not once visit the church and this is one of the reasons why he is looked down upon by the villagers.
Shunned by the villagers as an evil man, Marner seeks, and perhaps finds, comfort in his work.
As time passes, Marner though friendless, accumulates a lot of wealth and it appears that his wealth is his most beloved friend and his sole companion.
New characters are introduced in the third chapter.
Here one comes across the Squire, the British equivalent to a zamindar in India.
In the novel, it is the Squire’s sons – Godfrey and Dunstan – who are of importance and not so much the Squire himself.
Godfrey, the older son is handsome but rather weak-willed.
The younger son Dunstan, popularly called Dunsey, is heavily into gambling and drinking.
Despite Godfrey’s flaws, villagers in Raveloe like him and hope to see him married to the pretty village girl, Nancy.
While there is nothing apparent to stop this marriage, an ugly secret between the brothers threatens it.
Godfrey and Dunstan have a furious quarrel over a hundred pounds: money which was rent from a tenant.
Godfrey had lent this sum to his brother who quite predictably squandered it.
With the Squire asking for the money, Godfrey now insists that Dunstan returns it to him.
When Godfrey threatens to report the matter to the Squire, Dunstan threatens Godfrey that he would tell the Squire of Godfrey’s secret marriage to Molly, an opium addict.
Thus, Godfrey’s marriage to Nancy would be impossible.
With this piece of information comes a revelation that Godfrey was actually lured into the marriage as a trap so that Dunstan could always exert influence over him.
This revelation clears Godfrey of his wrongdoing and also shows the reader that Dunstan is an ill- natured man.
The problem is resolved when Dunstan suggests that Godfrey should sell Wildfire, Godfrey’s horse, and pay the Squire.
Godfrey reluctantly agrees to do it.
It becomes clear that Godfrey has feelings for the beautiful and noble Nancy; and it also shows that Godfrey is weak-willed, and is easily manipulated by his cunning brother.
The focus of the novel, from here on, is Dunstan.
On his way to sell Godfrey’s horse, Duncan passes Marner’s cottage and thinks about borrowing money from Marner instead of selling the horse.
However, he soon dismisses the thought because he feels that it would be more pleasurable to see the sorrow on Godfrey’s face after selling the horse.
Dunstan soon runs into some of his friends, who are out on a hunting expedition.
Not only does he make a deal with them to sell the horse, he even joins them with the intent to show them his horse.
His plans go horribly wrong when Dunstan tires the horse and in the midst of a leap, severely injures and kills it.
Since everyone is deeply engrossed in the hunt, nobody notices this mishap.
Dunstan escapes without much injury.
On his way home, while he is about to pass by Marner’s cottage, Dunstan wonders about the rumour of Marner’s hoarded wealth.
Given the current situation he is in, he can go to any lengths to save himself.
It is already dusk and the light from Marner’s window invites him to carry out his ill intentions.
Luck seems to be on his side as the door is unlocked, and though there is meat roasting on the fire, Marner is not at home.
Dunstan spots a tiny mound of sand inside and rushes towards it.
After sweeping it away, he removes the loose bricks below, and finds the bags of gold which belong to Marner.
Dunstan takes the bags of gold – Marner’s savings of a lifetime – and flees.
Unfortunately, Marner is again at the receiving end of a theft and this leaves him extremely upset.
Till now, he was happy as a loner but now he is desperate for help.
Initially, Marner suspects a poacher called Jem Rodney but he’s not sure whether Jem has taken the gold.
For the first time in years Marner seeks company to share his grief and heads for the village tavern, the Rainbow.
When he reaches the Rainbow, he finds that most of the people have gone to the dance.
He remembers Godfrey being excited about it since he had hoped to meet Nancy there.
These dances were important social interactions.
The dances gave the opportunity to the people to have a drink together, or share a joke, or dance.
However, strict codes of propriety had to be adhered to and the dances took place under the supervision of the elders.
The Rainbow may be seen as an example of Raveloe society.
From the familial space, the focus shifts to the public arena.
The power equation is shown clearly.
The rich order expensive spirits and are seated near the fire, w hile the poor order beer and sit further away from the fire.
It may be gathered from the conversations that the village folk are rather simple-minded and do not indulge in much thinking about anything that does not have any direct impact on their lives.
Their needs are limited and so are their worldviews.
Everyone in the tavern is startled by Marner’s appearance.
Since Marner preferred to be alone, people hardly saw him, and now, with his looks of bewilderment and grief, he looked nothing less than a ghoul.
Jem Rodney is present as well, but soon Marner stops suspecting him when he is told that Jem was with the landlord at the time of the theft.
However, once they find out about Marner’s loss, the villagers show great concern.
It is decided that the villagers will help Marner in trying to recover his money.
From the Rainbow, the scene now shifts to the household of the Squire.
Upon returning from the dance, Godfrey finds that his brother is not at home, but his feelings for Nancy keep him distracted.
The next morning the entire village is talking about the theft.
Though some pity Marner, some are dismissive of his situation, stating that the words of Marner are nothing but the ravings of a mad man.
When the dwelling of Marner is checked for clues, a tinder-box is recovered.
Though not much comes out of this discovery, Mr Snell, the tavern owner, reminds the search party that a peddler had mentioned a tinder-box some time ago.
Though no one sees anything suspicious about the disappearance of Dunstan, Godfrey tells his father that the money received as rent had been spent by Dunstan.
He also informs the Squire about the misfortune that has befallen Wildfire.
The short-tempered Squire is very angry and blames his sons for all his misfortunes.
He also expresses his discontent over Godfrey’s hesitation in proposing marriage to Nancy.
The Squire even proposes to play match-maker and act on behalf of Godfrey.
However, Godfrey is miserable and cannot take a decision.
He’s simply unable to muster courage and tell his father the reason why he is not in a position to marry Nancy.
As time passes, it becomes more and more evident that there is very little hope of any recovery of Marner’s money.
Some of the villagers of Raveloe seem to have softened.
They come to Marner’s cottage to cheer him up and offer their regrets over his misfortune.
One such visitor is a pious woman named Dolly Winthrop.
She and her son, Aaron, bring him lard cakes.
She insists that Marner visits the church; which according to her is the only source of solace.
But Marner is beyond any consolation.
He has formed a kinship with his money; so the subsequent loss of it makes him almost inconsolable.
It is Christmas time, and while the villagers of Raveloe are in a mood to make merry, Marner is in a mood to mourn.
After the Christmas festivities, the New Year dance is an event eagerly awaited by all in Raveloe.
At this juncture in the narrative, the focus directly shifts on how life was like for the womenfolk in Raveloe.
Till now we knew about the life of the women in the lower strata of the society; but now one sees what life was like for women belonging to the more privileged sections.
Nancy Lammeter, the love interest of Godfrey, arrives in the Squire’s household along with her father and her sister, Priscilla.
In the eleventh chapter, one notes how intensely conscious the women are of their social class – especially of their socio-economic standing.
Though Nancy seems uncomfortable with Godfrey, she cannot help but wonder what it would be like to be the mistress of such a splendid house.
While the Squire keeps asking Godfrey to speak to Nancy about marriage, Godfrey is unable to decide what to do.
While the dancing and merry-making is underway in the Squire’s house, Godfrey’s wife Molly is walking towards the Red House with her baby in her arms.
She is aware that a party is going on there and intends to avenge her misfortune.
While she directs her anger towards her husband, she is equally aware that her opium addiction is the root cause of all her misery.
Besides, she also resents the fact that while she’s bearing all the poverty and cold, her husband is enjoying a life of wealth and comfort.
Weakened by ill-health and addiction, Molly sits down on the roadside and has some opium to relax her, and soon becomes unconscious and dies.
The child in her arms, upon finding her mother’s grip loose, starts toddling towards the light emanating from Marner’s cottage window.
After the theft Marner has been in a wretched state himself.
He keeps the door open, hoping that someone might bring back his gold.
On this day when Molly’s daughter makes an appearance, the door is unlocked as always and Marner is having a fit.
By the time he recovers, the child is already inside the house and asleep by the fireplace.
Marner has grown old and has become short-sighted.
When he recovers, all he can see is what seems to be a mound of gold.
Marner is thrilled.
He thinks his gold has been returned to him.
But upon touching the mound, he realizes that it is the silken golden hair of a child.
The child reminds him of his sister who died in her childhood.
He is taken back to his days in Lantern Yard.
He feeds the child some porridge and follows the footprints of the child.
Before long, he finds Molly’s corpse.
The party in the Red House is in full swing when Marner makes a sudden appearance with the child in his arms.
The Squire is irritated to see this unwelcome visitor.
Godfrey immediately recognizes the child and turns pale.
Marner narrates to them the circumstances in which he came into the possession of the child.
When it is confirmed that the child’s mother is indeed dead, Godfrey breathes a sigh of relief.
Marner informs the people that he intends to bring up the child.
Though Godfrey seems a little uneasy about Marner taking custody of his daughter, he is also quick to notice that this is the best option, given the circumstances.
The death of Molly gives him the liberty to propose marriage to Nancy.
He feels that since his daughter is under the care of Marner, he will certainly be able to keep an eye on her.
Molly’s death brings relief not only to Godfrey but also gives the child a better life.
Had she been under Molly’s care or the lack of it, she was almost destined for a difficult life.
In Marner’s household, she finds a very loving father figure.
He loves her and cares for her.
Seeing the love and concern that Marner has for her, the villagers start liking him and offer their help in whichever way they can.
Dolly Winthrop often comes to help him and it is she who suggests that the child be baptized.
Although he is reluctant at first, Marner gives in.
Marner and the child get baptized.
He names her Hephzibah, the name of both his long-dead mother and sister.
People in Raveloe, including Marner, lovingly call her Eppie.
With Eppie’s arrival, life takes a dramatic turn for Marner.
Marner is no longer an outcast; the villagers have a new-found love and admiration for him.
While his earlier wealth had kept him aloof from society, his new-found wealth, Eppie, has brought him in close contact with the people.
In the spring and summer, they are to be found in the open fields.
Even when he is out to collect yam, little Eppie is his constant companion.
The very children who were terrified of him, seem to like him.
Godfrey, too, keeps an eye on Eppie and every once in a while offers help.
He is content to see his daughter being showered with love by Marner.
Without any worries in his life, even Godfrey seems to have become a new man.
Even the villagers have noticed a change in him.
When the novel opens in the second section, sixteen years have elapsed.
There have been many changes in the people who live there.
In this section we find the characters being re-introduced.
Squire Cass has died and his estate has been divided.
Godfrey is one of the most noble and respected residents in Raveloe.
He has married his beloved Nancy.
Silas Marner, in his fifties has become a part of the society in Raveloe.
Little Eppie has grown up.
Dolly Winthrop’s son Aaron is deeply in love with her.
Dolly, we are told, is Eppie’s godmother.
At this point, it appears that Marner has stopped running from his painful past and has accepted it.
He talks to Dolly and Eppie about his life in Lantern Yard.
Marner has also revealed the fact to Eppie that he is not her biological father.
She does not seem perturbed as she believes that nobody could have loved her and cared for her like Marner had.
However, Eppie is quite curious to know about her mother and keeps looking at her mother’s ring, which Marner had given her.
Eppie informs Marner that Aaron has proposed marriage to her and since she loves him she intends to marry him.
She says that Aaron does not mean to desert Marner and wants him to stay with them as their father.
During this time, the pit near Marner’s cottage is being drained.
The fields need to be watered and the water from the pit near Marner’s dwelling is being used for this purpose.
The focus now shifts from the residence of Marner to the Red House – the Cass residence.
As mentioned earlier, the Squire is dead and his younger son, Dunstan, has not been seen again after stealing Marner’s money.
The elder son Godfrey has married Nancy and now the Red House is orderly and peaceful under her supervision.
However, not all is well in the Cass dwelling.
Nancy has had a miscarriage and she is childless since.
Godfrey has suggested adoption time and again but Nancy sees adoption as meddling with Providence.
While Godfrey tries to persuade her to adopt a child she continues to oppose his suggestion.
Godfrey even suggests adopting Eppie but to no avail.
Godfrey has turned out to be a rather thoughtful person.
With Eppie growing up in front of his eyes, it appears that Godfrey remembers Molly, who he never acknowledged as his wife, and the grief he had caused her.
In chapter eighteen, the skeleton of Godfrey’s younger brother, Dunstan, is found in the pit near Marner’s cottage.
The body had been in the pit all along and is discovered while it was being drained to water the fields.
The money Dunstan had stolen is also found on him.
Godfrey is shaken but it is not only because of the death of his younger brother.
What appears to have disturbed him most is the realization that all evil comes to light at some point or the other.
One may succeed in hiding it for a while but not for long.
In his state of disorder and shock, he confesses to Nancy that in his married life he has had one secret.
The woman Marner found dead in the snow, long years ago, was actually his wife, Molly, and the child that Marner has been raising as his own is actually Godfrey and Molly’s.
Nancy’s maturity and nobility of character comes to the fore when in response she tells her husband that had he made this confession to her earlier, he would have spared Eppie the situation of being motherless and spared Nancy the pain of being childless.
Nancy makes it clear to him that she forgives him simply because he has been a good husband to her but the wrong he has done to Eppie is not to be forgiven easily.
While Marner and Eppie are sitting in their cottage talking thoughtfully about the discovery of Dunstan and the money, Nancy and Godfrey arrive.
They offer to adopt Eppie which is very politely and firmly refused even when the advantage of this adoption is explained to them.
Upon meeting strong refusal from them, Godfrey realizes that he has no choice but to reveal to Marner that Eppie is his daughter and it is only right that she comes and stays with him.
Even Nancy thinks that Godfrey is very justified in wanting his daughter back in his life with him.
Much distressed and angered, Marner says that the decision is neither his nor Godfrey’s to make as to who has greater claim over her and that it is entirely Eppie’s decision as to with whom will she live.
After Nancy, it is now Eppie’s turn to show her nobility of character and makes it very clear to both Godfrey and Nancy that despite all the benefits, she has no intention of abandoning the person who has brought her up with such love and devotion.
Godfrey and Nancy come back home and realize that Eppie’s mind is already made up and that she is probably going to marry Aaron.
Godfrey says that Eppie’s refusal to acknowledge him as her father is the punishment he deserves for all the wrongs he has committed.
At the same time, he says that he is indeed grateful that Nancy, the love of his life, is still with him.
The final chapter contains an interesting peek into nineteenth century British society and what industrialization was doing to it.
With the money recovered, Marner and Eppie travel to Lantern Yard.
They are surprised to see that the place has changed beyond recognition.
The high buildings and narrow, filthy lanes frighten them.
The old chapel of Marner has been replaced by a large factory and none of the old residents of Lantern Yard are to be seen anywhere.
Marner is content that Raveloe is his home now and that Eppie is his precious possession.
Upon returning, Dolly tells him that truth matters most in the end and as he has always stood for the truth, he has no reason to feel unhappy.
The book concludes with an account of the beautiful marriage ceremony of Eppie and Aaron.
Nancy and her sister Priscilla comment on the event along with their father.
At the Rainbow, the people discuss the life of Marner.
As the wedding procession arrives at its destination, one is told that Aaron and Eppie have decided to stay with Marner in his cottage.
Interestingly, a beautiful garden has been now laid and Godfrey has paid for the expense.
The story highlights Gandhi’s efforts to help the poor peasants of Champaran.
The most suitable land for growing crops in the Champaran district was owned by the Englishmen, where the Indian Tenants worked.
Indigo was the major commercial crop and all the tenants were forced to plant  15% indigo and were supposed to surrender the entire indigo harvest as rent to the landlords.
Meanwhile, when Britishers did not need Indigo crop anymore because Germany had already developed synthetic indigo in order to release the peasants from the 15%agreement they demanded compensation.
Some agreed while others didn’t agree to this.
Rajkumar Shukla was one of the sharecroppers and he went to Gandhiji to seek some help and convince him to go to Champaran and help them against this long term injustice by the landlords.
He followed Gandhi everywhere and strongly wanted Gandhi to fix a date out of his busy schedule to visit Champaran.
Gandhiji was impressed by his determination and he finally decided to go along with him.
They further went to Patna and Rajkumar took him to a lawyer named Rajendra Prasad.
The servants of the lawyer’s house did not take Gandhiji seriously because he was dressed very modestly and he was mistaken as another peasant.
Shukla and Gandhi further went to Muzzafnagar to get a deeper insight into the sharecroppers of Champaran.
A telegram was sent to J.B Kriplani while they stayed at the house of Prof. Malakani who was a government servant.
British Government, on the other hand, punished those who gave shelters to national leaders or protestors of the government.
Gandhi was popular already and his arrival and the way to resist the government orders were spread like a wildfire.
Many people came to support him along with the lawyers and peasant groups.
After Gandhiji’s scolding, the lawyers understood that their charges for fighting the case of peasants were very high and a poor peasant could not afford it
Gandhi finally reaches Champaran to meet the secretary of the British landlord association to get the facts and figures but he was not welcomed because he was addressed as an outsider by them.
He was asked to leave Trihut after he visited the British Official Gandhi commissioner.
Gandhi instead went to Motihari the capital of Champaran to further investigate the problems of the people.
Through negotiations he agreed on 25 % refund by landowners Gandhi collected fees from the sharecroppers and counseled the peasants to fight for their rights without fear and with confidence.
Finally, he succeeded in getting justice after fighting a yearlong battle.
He also made arrangement for the education, health, hygiene for h families of the poor and taught them the lesson of self-reliance or and independence.
Sophie being a teenager with whims and fancies belongs to a very poor family.
She wants to open a boutique, be a fashion designer or an actress.
Her friend Jansie keeps bringing her back to the reality by telling her that it is not easy to open a boutique because she doesn’t have enough money and it will take very long for her to collect so much money, she tells her that they are meant to work in a biscuit factory but Sophie pays no heeds to what Jansie say sand continues her daydreaming.
Sophie lives in a small house with one elder brother Geoff and one young brother Derek along with her parents.
She likes talking with Geoff because he is the only one in the family who listens to the wild dream Sophie and because he does not speak much Sophie is very fascinated by the life lead by Geoff.
She tells him that she met a famous football player Danney Cassey.
When he tells it to their father he knows that Sophie is lying and asks her to stop thinking wildly and stay out of trouble.
The family goes to see the football match and there Geoff who partially believed in Sophie’s story tells it to Janise’s brother who further tells this to Jansie.
When Jansie confronts about this to Sophie, she gets very angry with her brother because she did not want Jansie to know as she could never keep a secret.
Returning from the match Sophie sits by a Canal and is again lost in her daydreaming process and imagines Danney Cassey walking towards her.
She always thought such a place which away from the hubbub of the city is always better for meetings like this, the one she imagines with Danney Cassey.
But because it was all in her mind, she is left disappointed at the last because she believed too much in the world she fantasized about so much so that she even led her real-life according to it, she feels bad that now again she will return home and when her brother will ask about the autograph that she was supposed to get after the next meeting with Danney Casey she will have nothing to say and then again no one will believe her.
Interview, according to Christopher had different functions and advantages.
Some people find it a source of truth and a medium through which the questions of the general public are answered whereas some people claim it as an unwarranted intrusion into their lives.
The author has enlisted the writers who despise interviews like S. Naipaul who feels that ‘some people are wounded by interviews and lose a part of themselves.’ For Lewis Carroll, it is ‘a just horror of the interviewer’ and therefore refrained from it.
Rudyard Kipling says that it's immoral, a crime, an assault that merits punishment’.
H.G. Wells claimed to interview to be an ‘ordeal’.
Saul Bellow describes it ‘like thumbprints on his windpipe.
‘He says that as an interviewer people are comfortable but being an interviewee is disturbing and diminishing.
However, an interview ‘is a serviceable medium communication’.
In the second part, he mentions the extract from the interview taken by Mukund Padmanabhan from ‘The Hindu’ of Umberto Eco who is an author of the very popular novel  ‘Name of Rose’,  during which he asks him about his versatility in writing.
However, Umberto replies that though people might think that he creates a different literary piece every time but in reality, he simply does the same thing again and again which is simply that he pursues his philosophical interests through his writings.
He tells that he tries to fill the empty spaces which he calls Interstices to his advantage and make use of them.
He also writes that it is difficult to trace the success of a novel because it may have different responses in different times and era, as he himself admits, had the novel come 10 years later or earlier, the novel would not have got such success.
Then there was an office boy who wanted to become an actor, writer, director or lyrics writer and was a bit of a poet too.
Through the office boy, he tries to show the plight of aspiring or struggling actors who end up doing a completely different job.
The main character that he talks about is Kothamanglam Subbu who along with being born a Brahmin by virtue also has many other qualities like he was tailor-made for films and film - making must be easy with him around.
He was a poet too and he would come out with many alternatives to enact one scene.
Despite his good nature, he had many enemies in the studio who were jealous of him.
Then he shifts to the legal adviser and how he was the one responsible to bring an end to an actress’s acting career.
There was a story department at the studio too whose boss was Subbu.
Then the narrative takes a political shift where communism that was a  newly emerged ideology for the people in India is discussed.
He writes that the poets loved Gandhiji but an inclination towards his ideas and they also had a strong dislike for communism too because of what it did to the Soviet Union.
The arrival of the Moral Re-Armament Army at Gemini studios was stepped to spread anti-communist feelings in South India by presenting two plays at the studio as they knew the significance, the influence and reach of the studio.
After some time another guest has visited Gemini studio who was unknown to all and welcomed by Mr. Vasan (the boss).
He gave a long speech on freedom and democracy.
After somedays, Asokamitran saw a British periodical named
The Encounter and he wanted to send his entry and have some information beforehand and so he visited the British Council Library.
There he found the copies of The Encounter and learned that its editor was Stephen Spender the unknown visitor at the Studio.
Through the story ‘The Rattrap’ the author underlines the belief that essential goodness in human beings can be aroused through sympathy, understanding, and love.
The story revolves around a man who used to sell rattraps, steals and even begs to make his ends meet.
While walking he was struck with a sudden realization that the whole world is a rattrap and it offers riches as bait.
Just like a rat is tempted to touch and take the bait away even people are tempted to touch the bait provided y the world and as soon as they get closer it traps them bringing everything at the end.
One dark evening the rattrap peddler sought shelter in an old crofter’s roadside cottage.
The old man was kind-hearted and generous and gave him food, tobacco and even played a card game with him.
The old man told him about his earnings and also told him where he kept them.
The next morning the peddler stole away the old man’s earnings that were thirty kroner.
He escaped into a big confusing forest and got lost.
He got tired and just when he was about to conclude that his end is near he heard the thumping voices from the Ramsjo ironworks and he went inside to seek shelter for the night.
The owner soon came and noticed him and mistaken him for an old acquaintance of his named Nils Olof.
He invited the peddler to stay with him for the Christmas Eve as even he and his daughter were unhappy spendings the eve all alone.
Though the peddler was reluctant when the owner of the mill sent his daughter Edla Willmansson to persuade him he could not say no.
The peddler realizes that by stealing thirty kronor from the old man and accepting the invitation for Christmas Eve he has knowingly thrown himself into the lion’s den.
When the peddler came to the dining table all well-groomed and dressed not as a tramp but as a gentleman the ironmaster or the owner realizes that he had mistaken him and he threatened to call the sheriff.
Though his daughter pleaded that the peddler should not be bothered and he deserves at least one day at peace.
The ironmaster although reluctantly agreed to his daughter’s request and the peddler was given food and place to sleep and was not disturbed except for food.
Next morning the ironmaster and his daughter learn at the church about the man who stole thirty kronor from the old man and escaped into the woods and they realize its none other than their guest and they rush home only to find that the man was gone.
But he did not steal anything instead he left a packet for Edla as her Christmas present, she opens the packet and finds a rattrap, three wrinkled ten-Kroner notes and also a letter with a request to return the Kroners to the crofter.
In the following story, the writer tells us how he overcame his fear of water and learned swimming with sheer determination and will power.
He had developed a terror of water since childhood when he was four and had gone to a beach in California with his father the waves knocked him down and he was swept over with them.
The author was completely terrified as a child and this experience bred a permanent fear of water in the author’s subconscious mind.
The author decided to learn swimming in Y.M.C.A pool in Yakima when one day suddenly a big boy played a prank on him and pushed him into the deep end of the pool.
Douglas was completely horrified and went a foot into the water and tried his best to move upwards but all his efforts were going in vain.
He tried to shout but no sound came out.
He went down again and his lungs ached, head throbbed and he grew dizzy.
He felt paralyzed with fear.
His efforts and fears ceased and he was moving towards the peaceful death.
The writer was in peace and when he gained consciousness, he found himself lying on the side of the pool with the other boys nearby.
The terror he experienced never left him and haunted him for many years spoiling his expeditions of canoeing, swimming, and fishing.
But determined to conquer his fear he learned swimming and he finally gained the courage to face challenges and swim even in the warm lake.
The narrative oscillates twice between the past and the present, therefore, the prime theme of the story is time travel.
However escapism is another significant theme of the story as the protagonist Charlie wishes to escape into a world (along with his wife)  that is away from his grim realities and a happier place to dwell in, that is in the year 1894 much before the first and second world war.
This is a reflection of the fact that life in the earlier times was much happier and the people in that time weren’t anxious or fearful, unlike his present times.
Charlie not only transcends the boundaries of time and space but also of reality and imagination.
The narrator of the story, Charlie is well aware and assured of the fact that Grand Central Station, New York has only two stations.
However, he is thrilled by his experience of finding the third level as well!
He describes in detail about the setting of this third level which clearly didn’t seem that of the present times.
There were open flames gaslights, brass spittoons, people too were dressed differently like “the man wore a derby hat, a black four buttoned suit with tiny lapels and he had a big black handlebar mustache”.
Women wore mutton sleeves and there were certain other things that he noticed which were quite obsolete or misfits for the present years.
He even got a glimpse of a locomotive or a vehicle of Currier and Ives.
He is astounded to find himself in the past and to get a reassurance he looks at the newspaper  ‘The World” which was dated 11th June 1894  and it was now all of his doubts were put to an end as he knew that publication of the newspaper The World had stopped way earlier.
Along with his wife Louisa, he wanted to stay in the world he discovered and therefore he went to the ticket counter to ask for two tickets to Galesburg, Illinois where he could stay with his wife( far away from the anxious and fearful world of the present).
However, as astounded as he was upon looking everyone and everything, so were the people around him by noticing him; like the man at the ticket counter noticed how differently was he dressed.
Though he could not buy the tickets as he did not have the running currency of that time, he decided to go back, exchange the new currency for the old one and then return to the third level with his wife Louisa.
After returning back and getting his currency exchanged he tried to find The Third Level but it was not found.
Nonetheless, Charlie told all this to his wife and she got worried about him and eventually, he had to stop looking for the Third Level.
His psychiatrist friend Sam disappeared all of the sudden and nobody knew about his whereabouts.
One night while he was fussing with his stamp collection Charlie found a ‘first day cover’ (the mailed envelopes with a blank page inside that the stamp collectors mail to themselves when a new stamp is  issued, which has a postmark that proves the date) that was addressed to his grandfather in Galesburg which was dated July 18, 1894.
The letter in the first-day cover was not blank and had something written on it, this turned out to be a letter signed by his friend Sam!
Sam wrote in the letter that he had managed to find The Third Level and he is happy there and wanted Charlie to keep looking for it as it was worth it.
Charlie went to the stamp and coin store and figured out that Sam bought eight hundred dollars worth of old-style currency.
This was astonishing for Charlie as Sam himself referred this as a ‘waking dream wish fulfillment’ which Charlie used to escape his unhappy present and now he himself chose to become a  part of this hunky-dory world that was situated in past!
In ‘The Portrait of a Lady’, Khushwant Singh has given an account of his grandmother.
He draws a life-like portrait.
She was very old.
Her face was wrinkled.
Her hair was white.
It was hard to believe that once she had been young and pretty.
His grandfather’s picture hung above the mantelpiece in the drawing room.
He wore a big turban.
His clothes were loose.
He looked at least a hundred years old.
It was hard to believe that he had once a wife or children.
Khushwant Singh’s grandmother was a short lady.
She was fat and slightly bent.
She couldn’t walk straight.
She hobbled about the house.
She had to keep one hand on her waist.
It was to balance her stoop.
In the other she held a rosary.
She was always telling the beads.
Her lips constantly moved in prayer.
She put on white clothes.
Her silver locks scattered over her pale face.
She looked like snowy mountains in winter.
She was a picture of peace and contentment.
She was very old.
Perhaps she could not have looked older.
She looked the same for the last twenty years.
Khushwant Singh and his grandmother were good friends.
His parents went to city.
They left him with her in the village.
She took good care of him.
She used to wake him up in the morning.
She got him ready for the school.
She said her morning prayer in sing-song manner.
She hoped that he would learn it by heart.
He liked her voice but never bothered to learn it.
Then she would fetch his wooden slate.
She had already washed it and plastered it with yellow chalk.
She would take an earthen inkpot and a reed-pen.
She would tie them in a bundle and hand it to him.
She would given him a thick stale chapatti with little butter and sugar spread on it.
It was his breakfast.
She carried several stale chapattis with her for the village dogs.
His grandmother always went to school with him.
The school was attached to the temple.
The priest taught children the alphabet and the morning prayer.
The children sat in two rows in the verandah.
They would sing the alphabet or the prayer in a chorus.
The grandmother sat inside the temple.
She would read holy books.
Then they would walk home together.
The village dogs would gather at the temple door.
They threw chapattis to them.
The dogs would growl and fight with each other.
The narrator’s parents sent for them in the city.
It was a turning-point in their friendship.
They shared the same room.
But grandmother no longer went to school with him.
The narrator used to go to an English school in a motor bus.
There were no dogs in the streets.
So grandmother took to feeding the sparrows.
Years rolled by.
They saw less of each other.
Sometimes she would ask him what the teacher had taught him.
She did not believe in the things they taught at the English school.
She was unhappy.
She did not like English or Science.
She felt sad that there was no teaching about God and the scriptures at school.
The narrator one day told her that they were being given music lessons.
She was disturbed.
She thought music quite indecent.
For her it was good only for prostitutes and beggars.
It was not meant for gentle folk.
The narrator went to university.
He was given a room of his own.
The common link of friendship was broken.
The grandmother accepted her loneliness quietly.
She was always busy with her spinning wheel and reciting prayers.
She rarely talked to anyone.
In the afternoon, she relaxed for a while.
Then she would feed the sparrows.
She sat in the verandah.
She broke the bread into little bits.
Then she would throw them to sparrows.
Hundreds of sparrows came there.
They created a hell of noise.
Some came and sat on her legs.
Others would sit on her shoulders.
Some would sit even on her head.
She smiled but never frightened them away.
Feeding the sparrows was the happiest half-hour of the day for her.
The narrator decided to go abroad for higher studies.
He was to remain away for five years.
The grandmother was very old.
She could die any moment.
The narrator was worried.
But the grandmother was not upset.
She showed no emotion.
She came to the railway station to see him off.
Her lips moved in prayer.
Her mind was lost in prayer.
Her fingers were busy telling the beads of her rosary.
She kissed his forehead silently.
The narrator thought that it was the last sign of physical contact between them.
The narrator returned home after five years.
His grandmother met him at the station.
She did not look a day older.
She did not speak anything.
She held him in her arms.
She went on reciting her prayers.
In the afternoon she fed the sparrows as usual.
In the evening a change came over her.
She didn’t pray.
She collected the women of the neighbourhood.
She got an old drum.
She continued thumping the old drum for several hours.
She started singing.
She sang of the home-coming of warriors.
They had to persuade her to stop.
She might overstrain herself.
It was for the first time that she had forgotten to pray.
The next morning she fell ill. She had a mild fever.
She told them that her end was near.
She realised that she had forgotten to pray.
She didn’t want to talk.
It would be waste of time.
She ignored their requests.
She lay peacefully in bed.
She was praying and telling beads.
Then her lips stopped moving.
The rosary fell down from her lifeless fingers.
Her face looked pale but peaceful.
She was dead.
She was laid on the ground.
She was covered with a red shawl.
Arrangements for her funeral were being made.
It was evening.
The sun was setting.
They brought a wooden stretcher.
They stopped half-way in the courtyard.
Thousands of sparrows sat near her dead body.
They did not chirrup.
Everyone felt sorry for the birds.
The narrator’s mother brought some bread.
She broke it into little crumbs.
She threw these crumbs to the sparrows.
The birds took no notice of them.
Then they carried her dead body outside.
The sparrows flew away quietly.
The crumbs of bread still remained lying there in the courtyard.
Evidently, the sparrows had come to mourn the death of the grandmother.
Either he has destroyed this seed or misplaced it somewhere in an area which does not belong to him.
The result is loss of affinity and closeness.
They speak like strangers and there is no sign of understanding between them.
The lack of communication between father and son highlights the growing chasm between the two generations.
The father admits that the child’s physical shape is according to his own desires but their interests differ.
He cannot share what the son loves.
The lack of common interests results in lack of communication.
The son is busy in searching new avenues for himself and moving away to his own world.
The father wishes that his son might return to him as the proverbial prodigal son.
He would prefer his return to the place he is so familiar with rather than risk adventure to unknown and unfamiliar lands.
Like the father in the old story about the prodigal son, he would also forgive his son.
He hoped to build a new love from the sorrow of losing material wealth as a result of his son’s ventures.
A realization dawns on the father at last.
He and his son must live on the same earth and on the part of land.
Now when the son speaks, the father fails to understand it.
It seems as if he cannot understand himself as the son is the image of father himself.
The grief of separation causes anger.
They make no special effort to make up the loss.
The hand they extend is empty.
However, there is a strong desire for something to help him in forgiving and forgetting the bitterness.
The first possibility of the time of departure of his childhood relates to the age when he had completed the age of eleven.
It was then that he developed a power of understanding.
Then he became aware that Hell and Heaven could not be found in Geography.
Since they could not be located anywhere in world, he concluded that they did not exist.
He thus reached a logical conclusion based on his reasoning power.
The second possibility relates to the time when he realized the hypocrisy of the adults.
They were not all that they seemed to be.
They talked of love and gave advice of love, but did not act so affectionately.
The third possibility relates to the time when he found that he was the master of his mind.
He could use it whichever way he chose.
He could now produce his own thoughts and need not repeat those of others.
A sense of individuality dawned on him.
He wonders whether he lost his childhood on one of these days.
In the final stanza, the poet dwells on the problem where his childhood has disappeared.
On the basis of his limited knowledge he thinks that his childhood went to some forgotten place that was hidden in an infant’s face.
The poet implies that adolescence follows childhood in the same way as childhood had replaced infancy.
It is a stage in the process of growing up.
The poet asked the soft falling shower who it was.
Strangely enough, the shower gave him an answer.
The voice of the rain told him that it was the poem of earth.
It is everlasting and perpetual.
It is something that cannot be touched.
It is born out of the land and the deep sea.
It rises upward to heaven.
There it gets a different form and is altogether changed.
Yet it remains the same.
Then it comes down to wash the dry/thirsty tiny particles and dust layers of the world.
The rain helps the seeds which lie hidden and unborn under the layer of earth to take a new life.
This process of rain is perpetual and goes on by day and night.
Rain gives back life to its own source of beginning, makes it pure and beautiful.
The rain sings a song.
This song issues from its birth place.
It keeps wandering here and there whether it is paid heed to or not.
After accomplishment, the song returns properly with love.
Once there was a just and gentle king who ruled over a country.
The king announced publicly that a curved structure should be built which should extend across the major public road in a victorious manner to benefit the beholders spiritually.
Obeying the king’s orders, the workmen went there and built the arch.
The king rode down the thoroughfare to enlighten the spectators.
Since the arch was built too low, the king lost his crown under the arch.
The eyebrows of the gentle king were knit in displeasure.
He called it a disgrace and declared that the chief of builders would be hanged.
The rope and gallows were arranged and the chief of builders was led out.
As he passed the king, he shouted, “O king, it was the workmen’s fault.” The king stopped the proceedings and Ordered that all the workmen be hanged instead.
The workmen looked surprised and said to the king that he had not realized that the bricks were made of the wrong size.
The king ordered that the masons be called there.
The masons were brought there.
They stood trembling with fear.
They now blamed the architect.
The architect was called.
The king ordered that the architect was to be hanged.
The architect reminded the king that he had made certain improvements in the plans when he showed them to the king.
On hearing this, the king became very angry and was unable to act calmly.
Being a just and gentle king, he observed that it was a very difficult business and he needed some advice.
He ordered that the wisest man in the country be brought there.
The wisest man was found and brought to the Royal Court.
He was so old that he could not walk or see.
So he had to be carried there.
He said in a trembling voice that the culprit must be punished.
It was the arch that had hit the crown off, so it must be hanged.
The arch was then taken to the scaffold.
Then a councillor observed how they could hang something that had touched the head of the king.
The king thought carefully and said it was true.
However, by now the crowd became restless and was muttering aloud.
The king noticed their mood and trembled.
He asked the people who had assembled there to postpone deliberation over finer points like guilt.
Since the nation wants a hanging, someone must be hanged and that too immediately.
The noose was setup somewhat high.
Each man was measured by and by.
Only one man was tall enough to fit it.
That man was the king.
So he was hanged by the Royal ordinance.
The ministers felt satisfied that they had found someone to be hanged.
Otherwise the unruly town might have rebelled against the king.
They shouted “Long live the king!”

Since the king was dead, the practical minded ministers sent messengers to declare in the name of His (former) Majesty that the next to pass the City Gate would choose the ruler of their state.
It was their custom and it wound be observed with proper respect.
An idiot passed by the City Gate.
The guards asked him to decide: “Who is to be the King?” The idiot replied “a melon” because it was his standard answer to all questions.
The ministers crowned a melon as their king.
Then they led (carried) the Melon to the throne and set it down there with proper respect.
When asked how their king happenes to be a melon, the people would reply that it was on account of customary choice.
If the king felt happy in being a melon, it was all right for them.
They would not question him taking any shape as long as he left them in peace and liberty and allowed them to carry on their private business without government control.
It was nearly midnight when Andrew Manson, the young doctor reached Bryngower.
He found driller Joe Morgan waiting anxiously for him.
Joe told Andrew that his wife, Susan, wanted his help and that too before time.
Andrew went into his house, took his bag and left with Joe for number 12 Blaina Terrace.
Joe’s voice showed signs of strain as he told the doctor that he would not go in.
He reposed full faith in Andrew.
A narrow stair led up to a small bedroom.
He found two women beside the patient.
One was Mrs Morgan’s mother.
She was a tall, grey-haired woman of nearly seventy.
The other was a stout, elderly midwife.
The old woman offered to make a cup of tea for the doctor.
The experienced woman had realized that there must be a period of waiting.
Andrew drank tea in the kitchen downstairs.
He knew he could not snatch even an hour’s sleep if he went home.
He also knew that the case would demand all his attention.
Although he was very worried and upset, he decided to remain there until everything was over.
An hour later he went upstairs again.
He noted the progress made, came down once more and sat by the kitchen fire.
The old woman sat opposite him.
His thought were filled with Christine, the girl he loved.
He stared broodingly, into the fire and remained like this for quite long.
He was startled when the old woman suddenly asked him not to give her daughter the chloroform.
She feared that it would harm the baby.
The doctor replied that the anaesthetic would not do any harm.
An hour passed.
It was now dawn when the child was born, lifeless.
As he gazed at the still form, a shiver of horror passed over Andrew.
His face, heated with his own exertions, chilled suddenly.
He was torn between his desire to attempt to make the child start breathing again, and his obligation towards the mother.
She was in a desperate state.
The dilemma was quite urgent.
Instinctively, he gave the child to the nurse.
He turned his attention to Susan Morgan.
She lay collapsed on her side, almost pulseless and not let out of the effect of medicine to make her unconscious.
Her strength was ebbing.
He smashed a glass ampoule and injected the medicine.
Then he worked severely to restore the soft and weak woman.
After a few minutes of quick efforts, her heart strengthened.
He saw that he might safely leave her.
Then he asked the midwife about the child.
She made a frightened gesture.
She had placed it beneath the bed.
Andrew knelt down and pulled out the child.
It was a perfectly formed boy.
Its limp, warm body was white and soft as tallow.
The head lolled on the thin neck.
The limbs seemed boneless.
The cord, hastily slashed, lay like a broken stem.
The whiteness meant only one thing-unconsciousness caused by lack of oxygen.
His mind raced back to a case he had once seen in the Samaritan.
He remembered the treatment that had been used.
He instantly asked the nurse to get him hot water and cold water and basins.
Then he snatched a blanket.
He laid the child on it and began the special method of respiration.
As soon as the basins arrived, he poured cold water into one basin and hot in the other.
Then he hurried the child between the two.
Fifteen minutes passed.
Sweat ran into Andrew’s eyes.
His breath came pantingly, but no breath came from the lax body of the child.
A desperate sense of defeat pressed on him.
It was a quickly spreading hopelessness.
The midwife and the old woman were watching him.
He remembered the old woman’s longing for a grandchild which had been as great as her daughter’s longing for this child.
All this seemed broken and useless now.
The midwife remarked that it was a stillborn child.
Andrew did not pay any attention to her.
He had laboured in vain for half an hour.
He still persisted in one last effort.
He rubbed the child with a rough towel.
He went on crushing and releasing the little chest with both his hands.
He was trying to get breath into that limp body.
At last, the small chest gave a short, convulsive heave.
Then another and another.
Andrew redoubled his efforts.
The child was gasping now.
A bubble of mucus came from one tiny nostril.
The limbs were no longer boneless.
The pale skin slowly turned pink.
Then came the child’s cry.
Andrew handed the child to the nurse.
He felt weak and dazed.
The room lay in a shuddering litter.
He wrung out his sleeve and pulled on his jacket.
He went downstairs through the kitchen into the scullery.
His lips were dry.
He took a long drink of water.
Then he reached for his hat and coat.
It was now five o’clock.
He met Joe and told him that both were all right.
Andrew kept thinking that he had done something real at last.
This story depicts a clash of wit between a criminal and the law enforcing authorities in which the prisoner Evans befools the jail authorities and manages to escape from the prison.
If the government and law enforcing officials are vigilant, crime can be detected and criminals can be booked.
But criminals like Evans can hoodwink the authorities and escape punishment as long as the officials are slow and lack alertness and wit.
More Summary It is the month of early March.
The secretary of the Examination Board receives a call from the Governor of the H.M. Prison, Oxford.
He tells that a prisoner named Evans has started night classes in O Level German.
Now he wants to attain some academic qualification.
The Secretary replies that there is no need to worry.
All the necessary forms and other requisite material will be sent.
They will give him a chance.
He enquires about Evans.
The Governor tells him that Evans has no record of violence.
Rather he is an amusing fellow.
He is one of the stars at the Christmas concert.
The Secretary asks him if they can arrange a room where Evans can sit in for the examination.
The Governor tells that the room of Evans can be used for this purpose.
The Secretary agrees and tells that they could get a parson from St. Mary Mags to invigilate.
The Governor takes utmost care to see that he would not be fooled.
Every care was taken to make Evans prepare for the exam.
He was tutored by a German teacher for 6 months.
The day before the exam the teacher wishes good luck but makes it clear that he had hardly any ‘chance of getting through.’ But Evans gives an ironical twist to the tutor’s observation by saying “I may surprise everybody.” On the day of the exam Jackson and Stephens visited Evan’s cell and took away everything that may help him injure himself.
Evans was insisted to take away the hat but he refused saying that it was lucky charm.
Evan’s cell was bugged so that the Governor could himself listen to each and every conversation in the cell.
The invigilator Rev.
S. Mc Leery too was searched and left him invigilator Rev.
S. Mc Leery too was searched and left him to complete the task.
Stephen sitting outside the cell every now and then peeped into the cell.
The exam went on smoothly.
Stephen escorted the invigilator to the main gate and looked into Evan’s cell and found the invigilator (actually Evans) wounded, informed the Governor.
The latter was to be hospitalized but informed that he was alright and asked them to follow Evans.
Thus he escaped the prison.
When the invigilator was not found in the hospital they went to the residence of Rev.
S. Mc Leery only to find him ’bound and gagged in his study in Broad Street”.
He has been there, since 8.15 a.m. Now everything was clear to the Governor.
Evan escaped the prison the fourth time.
But by taking the hint from the question paper the Governor reached the hotel where Evans was staying.
He captured him and came to know how he planned his escape.
The Governor said that his game was over.
Evans surrendered himself to the Governor.
Evans was handcuffed and sent away with a prison officer in the prison van.
But here again he befools the Governor.
Both the prison officer and the prison van were part of the plan devised by Evan’s friends.
Little children love to hear stories from their parents at bedtime.
Such stories are mostly fables and have no logic behind them.
Many a time, parents make up stories out of their own head.
Little children take them as literally true.
But as the child grows up, he becomes inquisitive.
He begins to ask many questions.
He wants to know why and how certain things happen.
He wants to know the reason behind things.
Sometimes parents take this questioning of the child as an affront.
They try to discourage it.
They want the child to accept as true whatever is said to him.
Is such an attitude desirable?
This story poses this very question.
A father tells his child a story out of his head.
The child interrupts him a number of times.
She raises questions whenever she feels that the story is wrong.
The father feels himself caught in an ugly middle position.
He does not know whether he should accept the child’s version or stick to his own.
Thus the story raises a moral issue and leaves it to the reader to resolve it.
Jack was the father of two little kids – Jo and Bobby.
His wife Clare was carrying their third child.
Jack would tell a story to his daughter Jo out of his head in the evenings and for Saturday naps.
This custom of story-telling began when Jo was two–year-old and it was continuing for the last two years.
Each new story only differed a bit from the basic tale.
There always was a small creature, usually named Roger, for example, Roger Fish, Roger Squirrel, Roger Chipmunk etc.
He always had some problem and he would go to the wise old owl.
The owl would tell him to go to the Wizard, who would perform a magic spell that solved the problem.
The Wizard in turn would demand in payment a number of pennies greater than the number Roger creature had.
But at the same time he would direct the animal to a place where the extra pennies could be found.
Then Roger would become so happy that he played many games with other creatures.
Roger then would go home to his mother just in time to hear the train whistle that brought his daddy home from Boston.
Jack then would describe their supper, and the story was over.
Jack found this story-telling session especially tiring on Saturday, because Jo never fell asleep in naps any more.
One Saturday Jack asked Jo about whom the story should be today.
Roger Skunk, she said firmly.
A new animal; they must talk about Skunk at nursery school.
Jack started the story of the tiny creature Skunk, who lived in the dark deep woods.
His name was Roger Skunk and he smelled very bad.
He smelled so bad that other animals of the jungle would not play with him.
They would run away and Roger Skunk would stand there all alone.
Roger Skunk went to the wise old owl and told his problem.
The owl asked the Skunk why he did not see the Wizard.
Then he went to the Wizard and told that he smelled very bad and all the little animals used to run away from him.
The wise owl had told wizard that he could help in that manner.
The Wizard took his magic wand and asked Roger Skunk what he wanted to smell like.
Roger Skunk told him that he would like to smell like roses.
The Wizard chanted and Roger Skunk started smelling like roses.
The Wizard asked Roger Skunk to pay seven pennies.
Roger Skunk said that he had four pennies only and he began to cry.
The Wizard directed Roger to go to the nearby magic well and he would find three pennies there.
Roger Skunk took out three pennies from the well and gave them to the Wizard.
Now all the other animals gathered around him because he smelled so good.
They played various games and laughed.
It began to get dark so they all ran home to their mummies.
Jo thought that the story was all over.
When Roger Skunk went home his mummy said that the smell was awful.
She asked who made him smell like that.
Roger Skunk said that the Wizard did so.
She said that they were going right back to that Wizard.
He said that all the other animals would run away with his bad smell.
But his mummy said she did not care.
He should smell the way a little Skunk should have smelled.
So she took Roger with her and went to the Wizard.
When the wizard opened door, she hit him with her umbrella and explained how the wizard’s magic infuriated her.
The wizard spelled another magic and Roger smelled as foul as he did earlier.
But she was displeased with this new ending and wanted her father to make the wizard hit Roger’s mommy.
But Jack was not ready to make any change as he thought Joe should accept him without questioning.
Jo protested but Jack said that it was daddy’s story.
He said then Roger Skunk and her mummy went home.
They had supper and when Roger Skunk was in bed, Mommy Skunk came up and hugged him and said she loved him very much.
He told her that the story ends there.
Jo asked her daddy if the other animals ran away from Roger Skunk.
Jack said no, they finally got used to the way Roger Skunk was and did not mind it at all.
Jo commented that she was a stupid mummy.
He asked her to have a long nap as her brother Bobby was also sleeping.
Jo told him that she wanted him to tell her the story the next day that Wizard took that magic wand and hit that mummy, right over the head.
Jack said that it was not the story.
The point is that the little Skunk loved his mummy more than he loved all the other little animals.
Moreover, she knew what was right.
But Jo insisted that tomorrow he should say that the Wizard hit that mummy.
Jack said that he would see and asked her to sleep.
He closed the door and went downstairs.
Clare was striking the chair rail with a dipped brush.
Above him footsteps vibrated.
These were Jo’s footsteps.
He threatened to beat her and then the footsteps slowed down.
Clare observed that it was a long story.
He simply said “the poor kid”.
He watched his wife working hard on the wood-work.
She was doing painting work.
Thus the writer displays adult authority on one hand and the child’s inquisitiveness on the other.
This play deals with the problem of the disabled people and depicts that merely the encouraging words may change our tensed feelings.
It is for us to see and understand life in every organism.
It does not matter what we look like but it matters how we can uplift a disabled man.
It is not the actual pain or inconvenience caused by a physical impairment that troubles inconvenience caused by a physical impairment that troubles a disabled man but the behavior of the people around him.
People discard him as a useless limb and refuse to accept him in the mainstream of life.
So he feels alienated from the society and wants to live in seclusion.
In a way Derry suffers from inferiority complex.
Mr. Lamb motivates him to think positively about life, people and things.
It is a fine day and Mr. Lamb is in his garden.
He is an old man with a tin leg.
He leads a lonely life and is always ready to accept any visitor who comes in his garden.
One day Derry, a young boy of fourteen sneaks into Mr. Lamb’s garden.
He has a burnt face with acid so he looks very ugly.
He has become defiant and withdrawn due to his disfigured face.
He does not want to face the world with his ugly and disfigured face.
Derry climbs over the wall and cautiously walks through the long grass.
He is quite close to Lamb.
He is sacred when Lamb speaks to him.
Lamb asks him to tread carefully because the long grass is littered with wild apples dropped by wind.
Derry is utterly confused as he has come there considering the place empty.
Having been detected by Lamb, Derry panics and wants to go.
Lamb asks him not to leave as he does not mind anybody’s coming into his garden.
He keeps the gate always open.
He advises to enter through the gate rather than by climbing over the garden wall.
Lamb tells that all who come to his garden, are welcome.
But

Derry says that he has not come to steal but he wants only to come into garden.
He rather tells Derry not too afraid of anything but Derry points out that the people are afraid of him because of his ugly and disfigured face.
Derry adds that he is afraid of himself when he sees his face in the mirror.
Lamb tries to console him.
He asks him to face the harsh realities of life bravely.
He tries to divert the views of Derry from his burnt face to the fruits in the garden, but Derry keeps on talking about his ugly face.
Lamb tries to make him understand that it is the inner beauty of a person that matters, not his outer beauty.
Derry does not agree with it.
He tells lamb that it is important to be handsome from outside also.
He says that even his mother kisses him on the other side of his face.
He says that he has to spend whole of his life with his half face.
Mr. Lamb points out that there is no difference between a flower plant and a weed since both are living and growing plants.
Derry remarks that Mr. Lamb can put on trousers and cover up his tingle.
Then Mr. Lamb reminds Derry of a fairy tale of Beauty and The Beast in which the princess kisses the Beast who in turn changes into a handsome prince.
This makes Derry understand that ugliness is only skin deep.
A man is not what he looks like but what he really is.
Handsome is that handsome does.
This story is to inspire Derry and he should not care for his burnt face.
But Derry tells that people stare at his face and they are afraid of him.
Derry tells Lamb that women talk of his ugly face.
They say that none will kiss except his mother.
Mr. Lamb tells him that he must have heard so many other things also.
The best thing is to keep his ears shut and need not pay attention to such talks.
Mr. Lamb talks about the bees in his garden.
Some people like their buzzing while others hate.
But Lamb calls it a sweet music.
It is only the difference of attitude.
Derry tells that people stare at his face so he avoids them.
But Mr. Lamb tells that keeping alone is not a fine thing.
He tells a story about a man who was always afraid of being run over or getting infected or meeting with some accident.
So he locked himself in a room.
There a picture fell on his head and killed him.
Derry says that his family often talks about him downstairs when he is not there.
They are worried to think what is going to happen to him when they are gone and how he will get on in this world.
Mr. Lamb does not agree with him.
Lamb encourages him that he has got two arms, legs, eyes, ears, a tongue and a brain.
He can achieve whatever he likes.
He can be better than others.
He tells Derry that he has got a full can be better than others.
He tells Derry that he has got a full body.
He can do anything like other people or may do better than others.
He asks Lamb several questions to know more about him.
Mr. Lamb says that he sits in the sun and reads the books.
He likes the windows open to hear the wind.
Lambs tells that he has a lot of friends everywhere.
Everybody who comes in his garden is his friend.
Derry wonders how a person can be his friend about whom he knows nothing.
Derry says that there are some people he hates.
But Lamb remarks that hatred would do him more harm than any bottle of acid.
Acid only burns our face or so but hatred can burn us away inside.
Lamb asks him to be a friend.
Derry asks how they can be friends only in one meeting.
But Lamb tells him that he can come there at any time even if he is out.
Derry thinks to help him.
He tells Lamb that with one leg he can fall off a ladder and die.
Derry offers to help him but he wants to inform his mother where he is since she will be worried.
Lamb doubts if he would come back.
Derry assures him to return but Lamb says to himself that people never come back though they say that they will come back.
Derry goes back to his house and tells everything to his mother.
Derry says that he wants to go there, sit and listen to things and look.
Nobody else has ever said the things the old man has said.
His mother stops him from going to the old man’s house.
She tells that she has heard strange stories about the old man.
She urges him not to go there again.
Derry insists that he must go there otherwise he will never go anywhere in this world.
In spite of his mother’s strong resistance, Derry slams the door and runs away to help Lamb in collecting crab apples.
In the meantime Mr. Lamb climbs on the ladder for the apples.
The ladder falls back and Mr. Lamb is killed.
Derry opens the gate and says excitedly that he has come back.
Suddenly he gate and says excitedly that he has come back.
Suddenly he catches sight of Mr. Lamb.
He runs through the long grass and says, “I came back Lamely Lamb.
I did come back.” But there is no response.
Derry kneels by him and weeps and realizes that he has lost his only friend in this world.
This poem advocates the importance of silence and self-introspection.
It can transform not only the life of an individual but also the face of the earth.
The poet says that it does not need much time to look within and examine oneself.
It will take only as long as it will take to count to twelve.
During this time of introspection (self-examination), one should keep quiet and say nothing at all.
It will give him a strange feeling of togetherness with all others.
Although it may seem a little strange in the beginning, it will eventually bring us all together.
This silence will be free from ‘the disturbing sounds of engines and people rushing to get their work done’ for some time.
He feels contended imagining the change that will be brought about in those moments.
The men who hurt their hands while collecting salt will get a little rest.
Even the people who seek fresh wars, using fatal gas and weapons, will put on clean clothes and get a chance to walk among their brothers.
They will lead a hatred-free and calm life, giving a halt to their destructive activities.
The poet clarifies that his wish should not be considered as a case for “total inactivity”.
He only wants to interrupt the sad, cruel and baleful activities of the world for a few moments and make the people introspect their actions.
In fact what he says is connected with life, not with death.
Activity is very essence of life.
Inactivity is death but for a fresh, better and useful activity, a little stillness is essential.
The poet uses the image of the earth to show how life exists in seemingly dormant things.
In winter, the earth becomes so still and silent that it seems to be dead.
But later in spring, it seems to be lively again.
It has new beauties and colours added to it.
Similarly, after a little quietness and silence, man can resume his activities in a fresh and better manner.
One last Friday morning, the poetess was driving from her parents’ home to the Cochin airport.
Her mother was sitting beside her in the car.
She suddenly had a look at her mother.
She found that her mother was dozing with her open mouth.
Her face was as pale as that of a corpse.
The poet painfully realized that her mother is not going to live long.
This painful thought haunted her.
But soon she tried to put it off by looking out of the car window.
She saw the young trees running past them.
She looked at the merry children coming out of their homes.
As she saw life and vitality in the outside world, the painful thought passed away from her mind.
After reaching the airport, she went through the security check.
Her mother was standing outside a few yards away.
After the security check, she looked at her mother again.
Her face was pale white like a late winter’s moon.
She felt the old familiar ache of childhood in her heart which is usually felt by a child due to the fear of separation from his/ her mother.
But she contained herself and kept on smiling in order to conceal her emotions.
She spoke no word to her mother.
All that she said was, “See you soon, Amma” and bade good bye to her mother with a hope to see her again.
The poem The Tale of Melon City is a narrative poem about how a melon, following a custom, was chosen to become the king of a state.
It narrates in an amusing tone the events leading to such a situation when no other but a melon was coroneted as the king.
The poem begins with the description of a just and peace loving king ruling an ancient state.
Once the king planned to construct an arch, spanning the main thoroughfare.
The purpose of the arch was to improve the onlookers morally and provide aesthetic joy to them.
The plan of the king was executed immediately.
One day the king was passing by the side of the thoroughfare.
The arch was constructed very low so that the king’s crown struck against it and fell off.
Immediately the king responded negatively.
He felt dishonored.
He decided to hang the chief of builders holding him responsible.
Necessary arrangements were made for the hanging.
The chief of builders in his defence shifted the responsibility to the laborers.
On hearing so, the king adjourned the proceedings for a moment, and then decided to have all the laborers hanged.
According to the laborers, it all happened due to faulty size of the bricks.
So, the king summoned the masons.
They, in their turn, put the blame on the architect.
The king decreed to hang the architect.
The architect reminded the king that he had made certain amendments to the plans when they were shown for his approval.
In a way, the architect indirectly put the blame on the king.
The argument of the architect left the king completely confused.
Considering the matter to be intricate, the king sought the advice of a wise man.
He ordered to bring to him the wisest man in the country.
The king’s men could find out the wisest man and, accordingly, he was brought to the court of the King.
He was so old that he could neither walk nor see.
According to the old man, the real culprit was the the arch.
It was the arch that hit the crown violently and it fell off.
So, the arch was to be hanged.
The arch was led to the scaffold.
At that time, a councilor said that it would be very shameful act to hang the arch that hit the king’s head.
The crowd was getting restless.
In order to appease the mass, the king commented that someone must be hanged as it was the public demand.
The noose was set up.
It was somewhat high.
Each man was measured turn by turn.
Interestingly, there was one man who was tall enough to fit in the noose, and it was the King.
So, his majesty was hanged.
The ministers heaved a sigh of relief that they were able to find someone, otherwise the crowd might have risen in revolt.
Now the issue came up as to who would be the king of the state.
The old custom was invoked.
They sent out the heralds to proclaim that the next to pass the City Gate would choose the King.
An idiot happened to pass the City Gate.
The idiot was asked who was to be the king.
The idiot uttered Melon.
Actually that was his pet answer to all questions since he liked melons.
The ministers coroneted a melon and placed the melon king reverently at the throne.
All these events took place long long ago.
Now when someone asks the people how is it that their King appears to be a melon, they reply that if His majesty takes delight in being a melon, which is all right with them.
They have no right to say what he should be as long as he leaves them in peace and liberty.
It seems that the principles of non-interference are well established in that state.
Ranga’s Marriage, by Masti Venkatesh Iyengar, is a story about a boy who returns to his village after receiving education in English medium from Bangalore.
The boy is the son of the accountant of the village.
They live in the village Hoshali in Mysore.
The boy when returns, the whole village floods over him to see if there is any change in his personality.
However, to their dismay, he still has the same eyes and mouth and everything else.
He did the traditional namaskar and all dispersed.
The story is a first person narrative and a major portion of the story is in flash back.
The speaker directly addresses the reader.The narrator is a neighbor of the protagonist.
He introduces the story with a difference by first giving a detailed description of their village Hoshali.
He praises the mangoes from his village.
He asks the reader if he/she has ever heard of the village.
He replies to the question himself, for the village was not located in any of the maps for the English babus and the ones in our country forgot to put it there.
Then he introduces Ranga, the protagonist, in a time ten years ago.
Ranga had gone to Bangalore for studies and returned home after six months.
It was the time when English was a language not popular and a few people used it.
All used to converse in Kannada.
All the villagers arrived at Ranga’s place and began scrutinizing him.
To their dismay, he was still the same old Ranga and they left disappointed.
However, the narrator stayed back and shared a few jokes with the boy and then left.
Later in the afternoon, Ranga arrived at the narrator’s home with a few oranges.
The narrator judged the boy and felt it appropriate to marry such a well educated and humble boy.
However, Ranga had no plans to settle as a married man.
He put his views on marriage in front of the narrator that he wanted to get married to a girl who is mature and someone Rangappa could admire.
Ranga left after the discussion and the narrator decided then that he would get the boy married.
Determined, he began considering Rama Rao’s niece Ratna as a suitable bride for Ranga.
She was from a big town and knew how to play veena and harmonium.
He came up with a plan.
He asked Rama Rao’s wife to send Ratna to his place to fetch some buttermilk.
So she came on Friday wearing a grand saree.
He requested Ratna to sing and sent for Ranga.
Ranga reached the narrator’s place and stopped outside the room as he did not want to disrupt the singing but was curious to see her face so peeped in.
Ratna noticed the stranger
and stopped abruptly.
Ranga came in and the girl left.
Curiously he inquired about the girl and narrator cleverly played at his words.
He told Ranga that the girl was married off a year ago and noticed the disappointment flaring Ranga’s face.
He was infatuated to the girl.
The narrator was happy as his plan was working.
As his next step, the next day the narrator took Ranga to an astrologer who he had already tutored what to say.
It was the meeting with the astrologer when the narrator’s name is disclosed.
Shyama, he was.
The astrologer pretended to read the natal chart of Rangappa and declared that the boy was in love with a girl who had a name of something found in the ocean.
Shyama said it could be Ratna, Rama Rao’s niece.
Ranga’s smile was not hidden from Shyama.
But the girl was married!
The narrator took the boy to Rama Rao’s home and asked him to wait outside.
When he came outside he confirmed that the girl was not married, that there had been some confusion.
After all, the narrator had to come up with something.
Even Ranga then admitted that he had been attracted to the girl.
Later a conversation between the astrologer and the narrator is described as how the astrologer says that though the narrator had given him clues, he could have found it all out by himself through astrology.
The story moves forward ten years, or to say, returns to the present.
Rangappa came one day to the narrator, inviting him at his son Shyama’s third birthday.
Obviously, Ratna and Ranga had been married.
And now they have a three years old son whom Ranga named after the narrator.
The story The Address is all about the human predicament that follows the war.
The story narrates how a daughter goes to her native place in Holland in search of her mother’s belongings after the war.
At the beginning of the story, it is narrated how the protagonist was given a cold reception when she went to her native place after the war in search of her mother’s belongings.
After ringing the bell of House Number 46 in Marconi Street, a woman opened the door.
On being introduced, the woman kept staring at her in silence.
There was no sign of recognition on her face.
The woman was wearing her mother’s green knitted cardigan.
The narrator could understand that she had made no mistake.
She asked the woman whether she knew her mother.
The woman could not deny this.
The narrator wanted to talk to her for some time.
But the woman cautiously closed the door.
The narrator stopped there for some time and then left the place.
In the subsequent sections, the memories of the narrator’s bygone days come to light.
Her mother had provided the address years ago during the war.
She went to the home for a few days.
She could find that various things were missing.
At that time her mother told her about Mrs Dorling.
She happened to be an old acquaintance of the narrator’s mother.
Lately, she had renewed contact with her and had been coming there regularly.
Every time she left their house she took something home with her.
She told that she wanted to save all their nice possessions.
The next day the narrator saw Mrs. Dorling going out of their house with a heavy suitcase.
She had a fleeting glimpse of Mrs. Dorling’s face.
She asked her mother whether the woman lived far away.
At that time the narrator’s mother told about the address: Number 46, Marconi Street.
After many days the after the war, the narrator was curious to take record of the possessions that must still be at Number 46, Marconi Street.
With this intention, she went to the given address.
The concluding part of the story describes the second visit of the narrator.
As the narrator’s first visit yielded no result so she planned to go once again.
Interestingly, a girl of fifteen opened the door to her.
Her mother was not at home.
The narrator expressed her wish to wait for her.
The girl accompanied her to the passage.
The narrator saw an old fashioned iron candle holder hanging next to a mirror.
The girl made her sit in the living room and went inside.
The narrator was horrified to find herself in a room she knew and did not know.
She found herself in the midst of familiar things which she longed to see again but which troubled her in the strange atmosphere.
She had no courage to look around her.
But she no longer had the desire to possess them.
She got up, walked to the door, and left the room.
She resolved to forget the address and moved on.
This is a story of two tribal Armenian boys who belonged to the Garoghlanian tribe.
For their family, even in times of extreme poverty nothing could match the importance of honesty.
They never did anything wrong and never lied or never even stole anything.
The story talks about an incident that revolves around two cousins Aram who is nine years old and Mourad who is thirteen.
The world, for Aram, at that time, seemed to be a delightful and extremely joyous yet mysterious dream.
People believed in every imaginable kind of magnificence.
Mourad was considered to be crazy by everybody he knew.
The story opens with Mourad coming to Aram’s house at four in the morning one fine day.
He tapped on the window to Aram’s room.
When Aram looked out of the window, he was taken aback and startled to see Mourad riding a beautiful white horse.
In fact, he was so dazed that Mourad had to say “Yes, it’s a horse.
You are not dreaming.” All this was too unbelievable because Aram knew that they were too poor to be able to afford to buy a horse.
The only way Mourad could possess it could be by stealing.
They were too honest to lie and yet too crazy to ride a horse.
Thus, they kept the horse for two weeks, enjoying its ride in cool air and singing to their heart’s content on the country roads.
They hid it from the rest of the world by keeping it in a barn of the deserted vineyard.
Meanwhile, Aram came to know that the horse was stolen from John Byro.
They planned not to return it to him so soon although it pricked their conscience to steal, which was completely their ethics and tribal norms.
One fine day they came across John, the farmer.
Such was the boys’ family famous for their honesty that the thought of his horse being stolen by the boys never crossed John’s mind.
He was just amazed at the resemblance and said: “I would swear it is my horse if I did not know your parents.” This moving experience led the boys towards John’s vineyard the very next morning.
They left the horse in the barn after patting it affectionately.
Later that Based on day, John seemed to be very pleased and shared the news of the return of his horse with Aram’s mother.
The story teaches us the importance and necessity of honesty even in the face of greed and passion.
His son, Amenhotep IV shocked the country by attacking Amun, a major God, smashing his images and closing all his temples.
He changed his name to Akhenaten and promoted the worship of Aten or the sun disk.
After his death, a mysterious ruler, Smenkhkare appeared briefly and exited with hardly a trace.
When Tut took over, he changed his name from Tutankhaten to Tutankhamun and restored the old ways.
However, Tut ruled for nine years and then died mysteriously and unexpectedly.
In order to unravel the mystery of his death, King Tut’s mummy was scanned after a thousand years, thus opening new perceptions regarding the cause of his death.
In 1922, his tomb was discovered by Howard Carter who used all kinds of means to remove Tut’s mummy from the coffin.
The ritual resins had hardened, thereby cementing Tut to the bottom of his solid gold coffin.
Carter finally had to chisel the mummy away having no other option.
Every major joint was severed.
In 1968 an anatomy professor X-rayed the mummy and revealed that Tut’s breastbone and front ribs were missing.
Such a revelation would not have been possible without technological precision.
This fact gives us a clue that Tut, in all likelihood did not die a natural death.
Tut’s mummy was scanned in 2005 under the supervision of Zahi Hawass, Secretary General of Egypt’s Supreme Council of Antiquities.
The Computed Tomography Scan couldn’t solve the mysterious death of Tut but gave us clues for sure.
The lesson also provides a comprehensive awareness of ancient Egyptian culture.
The ancient Egyptians believed that there was life after death.
That is why the Pharaohs were buried with the tremendous amount of wealth including things of daily use so that they could use them in their life after death.
It was also believed that gold would guarantee their resurrection.
The Voice of the Rain’ celebrates rain and the accompanying water cycle that supports life and benefits the Earth.
The poet recounts a ‘conversation’ he had with the falling raindrops.
He asks the rain, ‘And who art thou?’ and strangely, the rain answers, calling itself ‘the Poem of Earth’.
The rain says that it is born in the form of intangible vapours that rise eternally from the earth’s land and deep water bodies.
It then reaches upwards towards heaven in the form of clouds, impalpable, vaguely formed and altogether changed.
Yet, at its core, it remains the same as it was at birth.
It, then, returns to its origin, the Earth, as raindrops to wash away the dust and rejuvenate the drought-ridden and dry land.
The poet compares the rain to a poem/song.
A song is born in the heart of a human and after giving pleasure and joy to one and all come back to the creator in the form of appreciation.
Similarly, rain originates from the Earth and the bottomless sea; soars up to heaven taking the form of clouds and comes down to give joy to its birthplace (Earth) and makes it clean, pure and beautiful.
The lesson, ‘The Ailing Planet: the Green Movement’s Role’ focuses on the deteriorating health of the Earth because of human being’s growing lust to exploit all its natural resources.
A Zoo in Lusaka, Zambia calls the man as the most dangerous animal in this world.
Fortunately, the Green movement launched in 1972 has been responsible for a new awareness that has dawned upon the human race.
There has been an irrevocable shift from a mechanistic view to a holistic and ecological view of the world.
There is a growing worldwide consciousness that the earth itself is a living organism -an enormous being of which we are parts.
It has its own metabolic needs that must be respected and preserved.
But, today, its vital signs reveal a patient in declining health.
In 1987, the World Commission on Environment and Development popularized the concept of sustainable development – a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of the future generations to meet their needs.
According to Mr Lester R. Brown, there are four biological systems, namely fisheries, forests, grasslands and croplands.
They form the basis of the global economic system.
They supply food to us and raw materials for our industries.
But in large areas of the world, these systems are reaching unsustainable levels.
Their productivity is being damaged.
For the first time in human history, we are concerned about the-Survival of not just the people but of the planet.
In this era of responsibility, an industry can play a crucial role.
Today, many industrialists and politicians have realized their responsibility in preserving the natural resources for the future generation.
The growth of world population is another factor distorting the future of our children.
Development is not possible if population increases.
The writer says that fertility falls as incomes rise, education spreads, and health improves.
Thus, development is the best contraceptive.
It was a mysterious disease.
They called it acute congestion of the stomach and brain.
The doctor thought that she would not live.
The fever left her as suddenly and mysteriously as it had come.
But the rejoice was short-lived.
No one, not even the doctor knew that she would never see or hear again.
Except for some fleeting memories, all seemed very unreal and like a nightmare.
Her hands felt every object and observed every motion.
She felt the need of some communication with others and began to make crude signs.
A shake of head meant “No” and a nod meant “Yes”.
A pull meant “come” and a push meant “go”.
In those days, Martha Washington, the child of her cook was her constant companion.
She understood her signs better than the others.
Her desire to express herself grew.
Her failure to make herself understood through limited signs upset her.
Her parents were deeply grieved and upset.
It was very difficult to teach a deaf and blind child.
Her mother’s only hope came from Dickens’s “American Notes”.
She had read his account of Laura Bridgman who had been educated inspite of being a deaf and blind child.
This led them to meet Dr. Alexander Graham Bell who advised Keller’s father to contact Mr. Anagnos, Director of the Perkins Institute in Boston.
Within a week came a kind letter from Mr. Anagnos.
He gave assurance that a teacher had been found for Helen Keller.
The arrival of Anne Mansfield Sullivan was the most important day in Keller’s life.
It was the third of March, 1886, three months before she was seven years old.
She stood on the porch dumb and expectant.
She was like a ship in a dense fog at sea.
“Light!
give me light!” was the wordless cry of her soul.
And the light of love shone on her in that very hour.
Miss Sullivan held her close in her arms and gave her a doll presented by the blind children at the Perkins Institute.
She slowly spelled into her hand the word “d-o-l-l”.
Helen was at once got interested in her finger play and tried to imitate it.
In the days that followed she learned to spell words like “pin”, “hat”, “cup” and a few verbs like “sit”, “stand” and “walk”.
Gradually she understood that everything had a name and each name gave birth to a new thought.
Children who can hear can acquire language easily without any particular effort.
But for a little deaf and blind child, it was a very slow and painful process.
Once Miss Sullivan touched her forehead and spelled with decided emphasis, “Think”.
In a flash, she knew that the word was the name of the process that was going on in her head.
After she learnt to spell a few words, Miss Sullivan gave her slips of carboard on which printed words in raised letters were written.
She could arrange the words in little sentences.
For example, “doll”, “is”, “on”, “bed”.
It was her teacher’s genius and her loving tact which made the first years of her education so beautiful.
Even when Helen was a child, she surprised her friends by declaring that she would go to Harvard.
The thought of going to college became an earnest desire.
She entered the Cambridge School to prepare for Radcliffe.
She had a good start in English and French but suffered serious drawbacks to her progress.
It was very difficult to have textbooks embossed in time.
Each day Miss Sullivan went to the classes with her and spelled into her hand with infinite patience all that the teachers said.
She took her preliminary examinations for Radcliffe in July 1897.
She passed in everything and received “honours” in German and English.
She began her second year at the Gilman School.
She was full of hope and determination to succeed.
Her preparation for college went on without interruption.
She took her final examinations in June 1899 for Radcliffe College.
At last, her struggle for admission to college ended but she entered Radcliffe only in the fall of 1900.
Reading was not her only pleasure.
Helen Keller’s amusements and pleasures were many and varied.
She had love for the country and out-of-door sports.
She learned to row and swim when she was just a child.
She enjoyed canoeing on moon light nights.
Sailing was her favourite amusement.
Having leisurely walks in the countryside thrilled her.
She had a subconscious memory of the green earth and murmuring waters.
Blindness and deafness did not rob her of this gift.
She had a soul sense which sees, hears, feels, all in one.
Cycling was also one of her favourite pastimes.
She loved the company of her dogs.
During the rainy days, she amused herself indoors and liked to knit and crochet.
She loved to frolic with children.
Museums and art stores were also sources of pleasure and inspiration for her.
Going to the theatre was a rare pleasure to her.
Helen Keller showed her gratitude to her friends, acquaintances and people who helped in shaping and moulding her life.
No doubt, the everlasting influence on her was of her teacher Miss Sullivan.
She gave a new meaning, direction and purpose to her life.
Bishop Brooks impressed upon her mind two great ideas–the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man.
Dr. Edward Hale was one of her very oldest friends.
She had known him since she was eight.
He had taught love for the country and kindness to the poor.
Dr. Graham Bell had the art of making every subject he touched interesting.
He impressed Helen Keller by his humour and poetic side.
Bell’s dominating passion was his love for children.
He was never so happy as and when he had a little deaf child in his arms.
In New York she met Mr and Mrs. Laurance Hutton.
They introduced Helen to many of their literary friends like Howells and Mark Twain.
Mark Twain had his own way of thinking, saying and doing everything.
All these friends, acquaintances and great figures made the story of her life and turned her limitations into beautiful privileges and opportunities.
The story begins in the fall of 1897, at the time of the Klondike Gold Rush.
Buck is a large, four year old, one-hundred and forty pound dog, who lives on a ranch owned by Judge Miller in Santa Clara, California, some forty miles south of San Fransciso.
Buck, is part St. Bernard and part Scotch Shepherd.
Unlike the other smaller dogs on the ranch, Buck is allowed to roam over the entire property.
He goes into the swimming tank, hunts with the Judge’s sons, and escorts the Judge’s daughters on their morning walks.
In winter he lies at the feet of Judge in front of the fire in the library.
He is like a king who lords it over all the other creatures, and is treated with respect by everyone.
One night, when no one is around, a gardner takes Buck on a walk with a rope on his neck and sells him to a strange man.
Buck growls, and is surprised when the man tightens the rope and chokes him.
This is the first time Buck has ever been treated badly.
He bites the man’s hand, but can’t get away.
Buck is put on a train to Seattle with nothing to eat or drink.
He’s angry about how he’s being treated.
In the morning, four men come to pick up the crate.
They amuse themselves by poking sticks at him.
Buck is conveyed to a railway depot, where he is placed in an express car.
He stays there for two days and nights, during which he neither eats nor drinks.
He is bundled off the train at Seattle, where a man in a red sweater takes charge of him.
The man lets Buck out the cage, and Buck attacks him in fury, but the man brutally beats him into submission with a club.
Buck is beaten but his spirit is not broken.
In the days that follow, more dogs arrive.
One day a man named Perrault buys Buck for $300.
He can see that Buck is special.
He also buys another dog, Curly, and they all travel by boat with a man named Francois, and two other dogs.
The dogs are turned over to Francois, a swarthy French-Canadian.
Buck learns to respect both men, since they are calm and fair.
There are two other dogs on the ship, a big dog from Spitzbergen, and a gloomy one named Dave.
Buck encounters snow for the first time.
On Buck’s first day on the Dyea beach, he understands that he has been taken from civilization into a wild, primitive place.
Buck’s travelling companion, named Curly, is killed simply for trying to make friendly advances towards a husky dog only half her size.
The rest of the dogs in the camp attack and kill Curly when she does not rise.
Buck realizes that to survive in this world, he should never go down in a fight.
Buck hates Spitz as the latter is a dominating dog.
Francois ties Buck into a harness and sets him to work.
Buck has seen horses performing such labour before.
He tries his best, responding to Francois’s whip and the nips of Dave.
Buck learns quickly and makes good progress.
He learns to stop at “ho” and to move at “mush,” and how to turn and move downhill.
Two more dogs, Billie and Joe, are added to the team.
They are both huskies and are brothers.
Billie is excessively good-natured, while Joe is sour.
Soon another husky, Sol-leks, arrives.
He is an old husky with one eye, and he does not like to be approached from his blind side.
Buck accidently approaches him from that side once and gets his shoulder slashed.
He learns quickly not to repeat the mistake.
That night, Buck had trouble finding a place to sleep.
After wandering around the camp, he comes across Billie buried in the snow and proceeds to make his own hole and fall asleep instantly.
When he awakes, he forces his way out of the snow.
Perrault and Francois are very glad to have Buck.
Every night in the camp, Buck is exhausted.
He is bigger than the other dogs, and though he receives a larger ration, he never feels satisfied.
He imitates Pike, a new dog, by stealing a whole chunk of bacon and another weaker dog is punished in his place.
Buck is placed between Dave and Sol-leks to receive instruction from them.
He also learns to steal; his old morals, learned in Judge Miller’s sunny home, gradually slip away.
Old urges and instincts, which belonged to his wild ancestors, begin to assert themselves.
Buck is tough but quiet and does not start fights.
One night, Buck settles down under the shelter of a rock, but when he goes to get his food, he finds the space occupied by Spitz.
To everyone’s surprise, Buck becomes furious and he fights Spitz.
Just then, they hear Perrault shouting and see almost 80-100 starving huskies charging into the camp.
Perrault and Francois fight them off with clubs, and some of Buck’s teammates get hurt.
Buck is attacked by three huskies at once, and his head and shoulder are slashed; Spitz continues to nip at him.
Some of the dogs fall through the ice but get pulled out.
Dolly , one of the dogs, goes mad one morning and begins chasing Buck.
Francois kills the mad dog with an axe, and Buck is left exhausted from running.
Spitz jumps at Buck.
Francois punishes Spitz, but from then on, Spitz and Buck are at war.
Francois and Perrault realize it, with Francois betting on Buck and Perrault on Spitz.
It happens one day when a rabbit runs by the camp.
The whole team of dogs and fifty other dogs from a nearby camp start chasing the rabbit, with Buck in the lead.
Spitz finds a shortcut and kills the rabbit, and Buck attacks Spitz.
The other dogs wait to see who falls first.
Spitz was an experienced and smart fighter, but Buck uses imagination, instinct, and his head.
In the end Buck kills Spitz.
The next morning, Francois discovers Spitz missing and Buck covered with wounds.
As the dogs are about to be harnessed, Buck trots up to spot that Spitz occupied.
Francois brings Sol-leks to the position of leader instead.
Buck is furious and springs upon him.
He will not let Francois harness the team.
But Francois drags Buck away by the scruff of the neck.
Sol-leks does not mind giving up the position, but Francois comes back with the club.
Buck retreats but then refuses to take his old position.
Francois realizes, that he thinks that he has earned the lead position and will be satisfied with nothing less.
Buck trots to the lead position and is harnessed in.
Buck forces Pike to carry his share of the load, and he soundly punishes Joe for his bad behaviour.
After receiving their orders, Francois and Perrault leave the team in the care of officials, a “Scotch half-breed,” and pass out of Buck’s life for good.
The dogs are tired when they reach Dawson, but they are allowed little rest and are soon on their way out with another load.
They are treated well, attended to even before the men.
Dave, one of the dogs, becomes terribly ill, but refuses to stop pulling behind the sled.
The driver puts sole in his place, meaning to allow him to run easily behind the sled.
Dave cannot stand to see another dog doing his work.
He runs into the soft snow beside Sol-leks, trying to resume his usual place, is yelping and again attemptsto resume his place.
Finally, the driver decides it is kinder to allow Dave to pull, for he will die either way.
During his final pull, he often falls and is caught in the traces of the sled.
The next morning, Dave is too weak to rise.
The team is driven ahead some ways, but they cannot ignore the gunshot that rings out.
Buck and everyone else know what the shot means.
After arriving at Skagway from Dawson for the second time, the dogs are in a wretched state.
The journey took one month.
Buck has lost twenty-five pounds in weight.
Within four days, Buck and his mates are sold to Charles, a middle-aged man, and Hal, a man of about nineteen.
Travelling with the men is Mercedes, who is Charles’s wife and Hal’s sister.
Buck’s new owners are incompetent, and overload the sled.
The dogs are unable to move it.
Hal calls them lazy and whips them, although Mercedes tries to persuade him not to.
An onlooker suggests that Hal help the dogs by freeing the runners of the sled that are frozen in the snow.
When this is done, the dogs are able to pull the sled, but it is so badly loaded, it overturns.
The owners reluctantly cut the load in half, and acquire six more dogs, making a total of fourteen.
The newcomers, are not of much use, however, and nor does Buck have his heart in the work.
He knows he cannot depend on his new masters, because they do not know how to do anything.
They are barely travelling ten miles a day , and it is inevitable they will run short on dog food.
One of the dogs, Dub, is injured, and Hal shoots him.
Six dogs die of starvation.
As the going gets tougher, the three travelers fall to quarrelling.
Mercedes insists on riding on the sled, which adds intolerably to the load pulled by the weak and starving dogs.
Hal, Charles and Mercedes are insensitive to the suffering of the animals.
But the seven remaining dogs continue to pull the sled, despite their ill-treatment.
One day Billie falls and cannot get up.
Hal kills him with an axe and cuts him out of the traces.
The team knows this fate approaches.
The next day Koona goes, but the five remaining struggle on, despite their serious pains.
The spring weather is beautiful, but no one can take notice of it.
The ice on the river is beginning to break up, but they manage to reach the camp of John Thornton at the mouth of White River.
Thornton tells them to take no more chances on the melting ice.
Hal refuses to take his advice and wants to continue.
But he cannot persuade his exhausted dogs to get up, so he whips them until they begin to move.
But Buck refuses.
Hal takes up the club, but Buck will not move.
He is too numb.
Thornton intervenes, striking Hal, and telling Hal he will kill him if he hits the dog again.
Hal draws a knife, but Thornton knocks it out of his hand.
Hal decides to make off without Buck.
They pull out from the bank and start off down the river.
After a quarter of a mile, the ice break up and the men and dogs are all drowned.
Having frozen his feet that past December, John Thornton walks a slight limp.
Staying with Thornton during the spring, Buck’s strength is also restored.
Buck’s muscles swell, and flesh returns to cover his bones.
He makes friends with John Thornton’s other dogs, Skeet and Nig.
They await the raft that will carry them to Dawson.
Skeet is motherly and nurses Buck’s wounds during his convalescence.
Nig is also quite friendly.
The dogs manifest no jealously towards Buck.
The kindness of John Thornton arises for them as well.
Buck adores him, and goes wild with happiness when Thornton touches him or speaks to him.
He does not even like to lose sight of Thornton, however, Buck retains the wildness that has been growing in him since he was first kidnapped.
If a strange dog appears, he fights fiercely, and always prevails.
He never shows any mercy.
He also hears the call of his wild nature, and apart from Thornton, he no longer has any ties to the human world.
Later that year, a man named “Black” Burton, picks a quarrel with Thornton at a bar.
Burton hits him, and is immediately attacked by Buck.
He barely escapes with his life, and as a result of his defense of his master, Buck gets a reputation through all the camps in Alaska.
Again when John falls into the rapids of a river, Buck aids Hans and Pete in rescuing him and breaks three ribs.
That winter, Buck’s fame spreads even farther throughout Alaska, when he wins a bet that Thornton makes in a bar.
The bet is that Buck can start a sled that weighs a thousand pounds.
The test takes place in the street outside the bar, and Buck succeeds in his task, breaking the sled out of the ice and pulling it for one hundred yards.
This feat of Buck wins sixteen hundred dollars for his master.
A man then offers to Buck for twelve hundred dollars, but Thornton is not interested in selling Buck.
The money Buck wins for him enables Thornton to pay off some debts and journey with his partners in search of a fabled lost gold mine that no living man has ever found.
They travel east on an unknown trail.
Buck leads a team of six dogs 70 miles up the Yukon.
Buck is very happy as they trek through the wilderness, fishing, hunting and unthinking of time.
For two years they wander, seeking an ancient cabin and a mythical mine.
They never find the mine, but in the spring of the second year they find a “shallow place in a broad valley where the gold showed like yellow butter across the bottom of the washing-pan.”
With little work to do, Buck spends his days by the fire, dreaming once more of that ancient man.
In his mind he wanders in this early, undefined world.
Buck rightly hears an ancient call deep in the forest.
Sometimes he searches for it, sometimes he hears it, springs from his place and runs wild through the forest.
One night he hears it more clearly than ever before.
He goes into the forest and sees a timber wolf.
Wishing to make friends, Buck approaches; but the wolf is afraid of this beast three times his size and flees.
Several times this meeting is repeated, until finally the wolf understands Buck’s intentions, and they sniff noses.
For two days he does not leave, but then he hears once more the call of the forest.
He starts to wander in the woods, and stays away from the camp for days at a time, hunting and fishing for his food.
He exhibits a wild, wolf-like cunning.
As a fearsome hunter, he kills a moose by separating it from the herd and remorselessly pursuing and attacking it.
He shows great patience and ferocity.
It takes him four days to pull the moose down.
When he returns to Thornton’s camp, he finds it has been overrun by Yeehat Indians.
The Yeehats are gleefully dancing.
Three miles out he sees a fresh trail, and he becomes more cautious.
Suddenly he comes across the body of Nig, an arrow sticking from his head.
He passes the dog almost dead, and then he passes the body of Hans.
He sees Yeehat Indians dancing around the wreckage of the camp.
Buck leaps at the Indians, ripping open the throat of the chief, and keeps killing until the rest of the tribe runs away in terror.
For a few moments, Buck pursues them, killing a few more as they attempt to flee.
Buck sees Pete’s body, and then he follows the scent to the lake, where he knows John Thornton’s body lies.
Skeet, loyal to the end, lies dead just by the lake.
Buck sits and contemplates the ache in his heart.
He feels a bit better only when he looks at the bodies of the men he has killed.
He realizes that men are no match for dogs without their arrows, clubs and spears.
For years Buck runs in the wild as a wolf.
The Yeehats say a Ghost Dog that runs at the head of the pack, and they are afraid of him.
They know he continues on occasion to kill human hunters.
They do not enter the valley where he lives.
Old Major, the old boar on the Manor Farm, summons the animals on the farm together for a meeting, during which he refers to humans as “enemies” and teaches the animals a revolutionary song called “Beasts of England”.
When Major dies, two young pigs, Snowball and Napoleon, assume command and consider it a duty to prepare for the Rebellion.
The animals revolt and drive the drunken and irresponsible farmer, Mr. Jones, from the farm, renaming it as “Animal Farm”.
They adopt the Seven Commandments of Animalism, the most important of which is, “All animals are equal.”
Snowball teaches the animals to read and write, while Napoleon educates young puppies on the principles of Animalism.
Food is plentiful, and the farm runs smoothly.
The pigs elevate themselves to positions of leadership and set aside special food items, ostensibly for their personal health.
Some time later, several men attack Animal Farm.
Jones and his men are making an attempt to recapture the farm, aided by several other farmers who are terrified of similar animal revolts.
Snowball and the animals, who are hiding in ambush, defeat the men by launching a surprise attack as soon as they enter the farmyard.
Snowball’s popularity soars, and this event is proclaimed, “The Battle of the Cowshed”.
It is celebrated annually with the firing of a gun, on the anniversary of the Revolution.
Napoleon and Snowball vie for pre-eminence.
When Snowball announces his plans to modernize the farm by building a windmill, Napoleon has his dogs chase Snowball away and declares himself leader.
Napoleon enacts changes to the governance structure of the farm, replacing meetings with a committee of pigs who will run the farm.
Through a young pig named Squealer, Napoleon claims credit for the windmill idea.
The animals work harder with the promise of easier lives with the windmill.
When the animals find the windmill collapsed after a violent storm, Napoleon and Squealer convince the animals that Snowball is trying to sabotage their project.
Once Snowball becomes a scapegoat, Napoleon begins to purge the farm with his dogs, killing animals he accuses of consorting with his old rival.
When some animals recall the Battle of the Cowshed, Napoleon (who was nowhere to be found during the battle) frequently smears Snowball as a ‘collaborator of Jones’, while falsely representing himself as the ‘hero of the battle’.
“Beasts of England” is replaced with an anthem glorifying Napoleon, who appears to be adopting the lifestyle of a man.
The animals remain convinced that they are better off under Napoleon, than they were under Mr. Jones.
Mr. Frederick, one of the neighbouring farmers, attacks the farm, using blasting powder to blow up the restored windmill.
Though the animals win the battle, they do so at great cost, as many, including Boxer the workhorse, are wounded.
Despite his injuries, Boxer continues working harder and harder, until he collapses while working on the windmill.
Napoleon sends for a van to take Boxer to the veterinary surgeon, explaining that better care can be given there.
Benjamin, the cynical donkey who “could read as well as any pig”, notices that the van belongs to a knacker and attempts a futile rescue.
Squealer quickly assures the animals that the van had been purchased from the knacker by an animal hospital, and the previous owner’s signboard had not been repainted.
In a subsequent report, Squealer reports sadly to the animals that Boxer died peacefully at the animal hospital; the pigs hold a festival one day after Boxer’s death to further praise the glories of Animal Farm and have the animals work harder by taking on Boxer’s ways.
However, the truth was that Napoleon had engineered the sale of Boxer to the knacker, allowing him and his inner circle to acquire money to buy whiskey for themselves.
(In 1940s England, one way for farms to make money was to sell large animals to a knacker, who would kill the animal and boil its remains into animal glue.)
Years pass by, and the windmill is rebuilt along with construction of another windmill, which makes the farm a good amount of income.
However, the ideals which Snowball discussed, including stalls with electric lighting, heating and running water, are forgotten, with Napoleon advocating that the happiest animals live simple lives.
In addition to Boxer, many of the animals who participated in the Revolution are dead, as is Farmer Jones, who died in another part of England.
The pigs start resembling humans, as they walk upright, carry whips and wear clothes.
The Seven Commandments are abridged to a single phrase.
“All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others.” Napoleon holds a dinner party for the pigs and local farmers, with whom he celebrates a new alliance.
He abolishes the practice of the revolutionary traditions and restores the name, “The Manor Farm”.
As the animals look from pigs to humans, they realise they can no longer distinguish between the two.
Freedom is the birth right of every living being, whether it is a human being or any animal.
Nobody wants to lead a slavery life.
Someone has to rebel for the cause.
Here are the animals of the Manor Farm, who are ill-treated, starved to death by their owner Mr. Jones, and they start to rebel against him.
One night Mr. Jones stumbles drunkenly up to bed as the farm animals were waiting in the still silence.
The moment he goes to sleep, all animals bustle around.
They all were preparing themselves for the big meeting that is to take place that night.
Old Major has called the meeting to discuss a strange dream he had the previous night He is waiting for his fellow animals in the big barn.
The first animals to arrive are the three dogs, Bluebell, Jessie and Pincher, followed by the pigs, hens, pigeons, sheep and cows, as well as the horses : Boxer, Clover and Muriel, the white goat, and the donkey, Benjamin, followed them.
A group of motherless ducklings were wandering in and Clover, being the motherly type, forms a safe place for them to sit with her leg.
Mollie, the young mare, arrives just before the cat, who settles in between Boxer and Clover.
Everybody attends the meeting except Moses, the raven, who is sleeping on his perch behind the barn door.
Old Major addresses the animals, calling them, “Comrades”.
He explains that, since he is getting old and may die soon, he wishes to impart his wisdom.
Over his lifetime, he has come to the conclusions that, “No animal in England is free “ and “ The life of an animal is full of misery and slavery.”
Old Major states that animals’ domination by man is the sole reason they cannot be free, happy and fulfilled.
Man is “ the only creature that consumes without producing”.
His only job is to be “lord of all the animals,‘‘ which makes him “the only real enemy “animals have.
Man overworks animals only to rob them of the fruits of their labour, and treat them only well enough to survive and provide more labour.
When man is done with an animal, he slaughters it cruelly.
According to Old Major, Rebellion is the path to freedom.
Overthrowing the human race would make animals “rich and free” almost instantly.
Old Major begs the other animals to devote the rest of their lives to the cause of Rebellion and to reject the idea that they have codependency with man.
Furthermore, the animals must be united in order to overthrow man : “All men are enemies.
All animals are comrades,‘‘ Despite saying this, he is not sure whether wild animals count on them or not.
Old Major holds a vote to decide whether domesticated animals should unite with wild animals.
Only the dogs and the cat voted for the “No”, although the cat is not paying attention and votes twice.
After the vote, Old Major crystallizes his point, stating : “Whatever goes upon two legs is an enemy.
Whatever goes upon four legs, or has wings, is a friend.” He adds the additional point that, once they have achieved victory, animals must not emulate man.
They must not wear clothing, live in houses, or copy any of man’s other ‘evil’ habits.
Finally, Old Major relates his dream to the animals.
His dream was about the state of happiness that will exist once man is eliminated.
In the dream, a tune his mother and the other sons sang to him in his childhood returned to him, and new words accompanied the tune.
Old Major is sure that he has uncovered an old animal anthem in his dream life, that has been dormant for generations.
It is called ‘Beasts of England’, and he sings it to the other animals.
Orwell describes the song as “a stirring tune”.
The song glorifies the freedom and joy that will follow “ Tyrant man’s overthrow”, and he urges all animals to “toil for freedom’s sake,” even if they die before the cause is won.
The song rouses the animals, even the dullest of animals learn it in minutes.
In fact, the animals are so taken with the song that they sing it five times in unison.
The ruckus awakes Mr. Jones, who fires several bullets from his shotgun into the barn wall.
Because of the fear of Mr. Jones, everyone fled to their own original places and the whole farm was asleep in a moment.
Soon after the meeting, something unusual happened at Manor Farm.
Old Major died peacefully in his sleep, three days after the meeting took place.
The animals buried him in the farm’s orchard.
In the three months that followed, the most intelligent of the animals began meeting regularly.
Even though they didn’t know when the Rebellion would happen, yet, they organized for it.
The work of organizing and teaching fell upon the pigs, who were considered to be the cleverest of all animals.
The two pigs, Napoleon and Snowball, took the responsibility upon themselves.
Snowball was a vivacious pig, whereas Napoleon was a large, rather fierce pig who was not much of a talker.
Another pig named Squealer, joined Napoleon and Snowball, as he was well known for his powers of speech and persuasion.
The three pigs worked together to formalize old Major’s ideas into a system of ideas called ‘Animalism’.
They held several secret meetings to expound the principles of Animalism to others.
The pigs faced difficulty to convince other animals about the need for Rebellion.
Some wondered why they should work for the Rebellion that might not happen in their life times.
Among them was Moses, the raven, who promised them that they would go to a land of plenty called ‘Sugarcandy Mountain’, when they died.
Boxer and Clover proved helpful in winning the animals over to the cause, because the animals believed the horses to be trustworthy.
Soon the animals got the opportunity to rebel against Mr. Jones who had lately fallen into evil ways.
He lost a lawsuit and therefore, continued to neglect the farm and drank too much.
His men were dishonest who also neglected the farm and, thus the farm kept deteriorating and the animals were kept underfed.
One Saturday night, Mr. Jones got drunk in the Red Lion and forgot to feed the animals.
The cows broke in the door of the store shed and, thus all animals helped themselves to food.
When Mr Jones tried to stop and whip the animals, they fought back.
Jones, his family and his men ran out of the farm.
The animals, seeing what they had accomplished and realizing that they were free, destroyed the farmer’s tools and the symbols of their bondage, such as bits, nose rings and halters.
They burned everything that reminded them of their oppressor.
After that, they all sang ‘Beasts of England’ seven times before they could go to sleep.
The next morning the animals hurled themselves into the air with leaps of excitement and gazed around in the morning light.
They all agreed on the point that no animal must ever live there.
In the meantime, the pigs had taught themselves to read and write and renamed Manor Farm as Animal Farm.
The animals had to work very hard to get the hay in.
But, the harvest was more of a success than Mr. Jones and his men ever accomplished, despite the fact that the tools were not well suited for animals to use.
The pigs supervised the others but did not participate in the manual labour.
With their superior knowledge, they assumed leadership for themselves.
All animals worked day and night and finished the harvest in two days less than it had taken Mr. Jones and his men.
The horses, ducks and hens, played their role in the harvest.
With the ‘parasitical human beings’ out of the way, the animals enjoyed a feeling of abundance for the first time.
They had more leisure and their food tasted all the better as it was not doled out to them by a grudging master.
However, they had to face many difficulties.
They had a hard time harvesting the corn.
Boxer was invigorated and pushed himself to work harder than ever, because he was strong and big, thus he contributed to the most strenuous labour.
In contrast, the hens and ducks worked together gathering small bits of corn that the bigger animals were not able to do.
The system of Animalism on Animal Farm worked well : Every animal was satisfied with his share of the labour and its fruits.
No one stole or argued, and very few shirked their responsibilities, with the exception of frivolous Mollie and the cat.
Mollie was not good at getting up in the mornings, and had a way of leaving work early on the ground that there was a stone in her hoof.
And the cat could never be found, where there was work for her to do.
Old Benjamin, the donkey, seemed unchanged and worked in the same slow obstinate way.
Every Sunday was a day of rest on the Animal Farm.
The animals held an hour-long ceremony, which was conducted every week without fail.
The flag was hoisted which was green, to represent the green field of England, as explained by Snowball.
The hoof and the horn signified the future Republic of the Animals, which would arise when the human race had been finally overthrown.
A gathering called meeting followed the flag raising, in which the animals planned the coming week and the pigs represented resolutions for debate.
Snowball and Napoleon debated the most and took the opposite sides.
The animals ended each ‘meeting’ by singing “Beasts of England.” The pigs had set up a study centre for themselves in the harness : room, where they studied trades using Mr. Jones’ books.
Snowball began organizing the animals into Animal Committees, including, the Egg Production Committee, the Clean Tails League, the Wild Comrades’ Re-education Committee, to tame rats and rabbits and the Whiter Wool Movements.
Snowball succeeded in teaching some of the animals to read, although most of them lacked the intelligence needed for literacy.
In fact, many of the animals lacked the intelligence needed to memorize the Seven Commandments, so Snowball reduced Animalism’s tenets (Commandments) to one simple saying : “Four legs good, two legs bad.” As time passed, the pigs began to increase their control over the other animals.
For example, when Jessie and Bluebell gave birth to puppies, Napoleon took them to an isolated loft where he could teach them.
The loft could only be reached by a ladder from the harness room.
Soon everyone forgot their existence.
Napoleon believed that educating young, impressionable animals was more important than trying to re-educate older ones.
It turned out that pigs started mixing the cow’s milk with their food.
When the wind knocked ripe apples out of the orchard trees, the pigs claimed the right to take them all, as well as the bulk of the apple harvest.
The pigs claimed that they needed milk and apples in order to power their “brainwork”.
Squealer explained that if, the pigs would stop drinking milk and eating apples, they could lose their powers of organization and Mr. Jones would come back.
The threat of Mr. Jones’s return was enough to quell the other animals’ doubts and questions.
The news of Animal Farm Rebellion has spread to the surrounding country.
Snowball and Napoleon are sending pigeons to the neighbouring farms and beyond, to tell the animals about the rebellion, and to teach them the tune of “Beasts of England”.
Mr. Jones had spent a lot of time at the Red Lion complaining to everyone about the “Monstrous injustice he had suffered from a pack of good-for-nothing animals.” The owners of the two adjoining farms, Foxwood and Mr. Pilkington, started spreading rumours about the Animal Farms that, animals there practised cannibalism and tortured one another with red horseshoes.
These stories were never fully believed and caused a wave of rebelliousness throughout the countryside.
The tune and words of “Beasts of England” were heard everywhere and started spreading at a remarkable speed.
Early one day in October, a flight of pigeons came and gave news that Jones, all his men, and half a dozen men from the neighbouring farms, had entered the five barred gate and were carrying sticks and Jones was carrying gun in his hand.
They had come to recapture the farm.
The animals, however were well prepared.
Snowball had studied an old book of Julius Caesar and had a strategy in his mind.
Even though Jones was armed with a gun, the humans were no match for the forces of the Animal Farm.
Jones was able to kill one of the sheep but the humans were brutally beaten up and fled.
Boxer had nearly killed a man but it was later found out that he was merely stunned and left the place in their absence.
After the war, Mollie was found missing and everyone feared that the men might have harmed her in some way.
But in the end, they found her hiding in the stall with her head buried among the hay in the manger.
She fled the battle as soon as the gun went off.
The animals assembled with the wildest excitement to celebrate their victory.
The flag is raised, “Beasts of England” is sung.
A medal for “Animal Hero First class” is created and awarded to Snowball.
And a medal for “Animal Hero, Second Class” is created, and awarded to a sheep that died when Jones fired his gun.
The dead sheep was given a solemn funeral.
After much discussion the battle was named as the “Battle of the Cowshed”, and it was decided that Jones’ gun should be placed at the bottom of the flagstaff, to be fired twice a year, one on the anniversary of the Battle of Cowshed and other on the anniversary of the Rebellion.
As the winter drew on, Mollie becomes an increasing burden on Animal Farm.
She arrives late for work every morning and gives excuses of oversleeping etc.
Clover went to her stall and found lumps of sugar and several bunches of ribbons of different colours.
She accepts treats from men associated with nearby farms, and generally behaves contrary to the tenets of Animalism.
Eventually she disappears, lured away by a fat, red-faced man who stroked her coat and fed her sugar; now she pulls his carriage.
None of the other animals ever mention her name again.
In January, the weather was cold and bitter and nothing could be done in the fields.
The pigs were busy planning out the work for the coming season.
Meetings were held in the big barn.
Snowball and Napoleon’s constant disagreements continued to dominate the proceedings.
Snowball proves himself a better speaker and debater, but Napoleon can better canvass for support in between meetings.
Snowball brims with ideas for improving the farm.
He studies Mr. Jones books and eventually concocts a scheme to build a windmill, with which the animals could generate electricity and automate many farming tasks, bringing new comforts to the animals’ lives.
But building the windmill would entail much hard work and difficulty, and Napoleon contents that the animals should attend to their current needs rather than plan for a distant future.
The question deeply divides the animals.
Napoleon surveys Snowball’s plans and expresses his contempt by urinating on them.
Then there was difference of opinion relating to the defence of the farm.
Snowball wanted to spread Rebellion and Napoleon wanted to procure firearms and train themselves.
The days of voting for the windmill came.
Napoleon was not at all excited but Snowball impressed everybody with his speech.
Napoleon gives a strange whimper, and nine enormous dogs wearing brass : studded collars charge into the barn, attack Snowball, and chase him off the farm.
They return to Napoleons’ side, and with the dogs growling menacingly, Napoleon announces that, from now on, meetings will be held only for ceremonial purposes.
He states that all important decisions will fall to the pigs alone.
Afterwards, many of the animals felt confused and disturbed.
Squealer explains to them that Napoleon is making a great sacrifice in taking the leadership responsibilities upon himself and that as the cleverest animal, he serves the best interest of all by making the decisions.
These statements placate the animals, though they still question the expulsion of Snowball.
Squealer explains that Snowball was a traitor and a criminal.
Eventually, the animals come to accept this version of events, and Boxer adds greatly to Napoleon’s prestige by adopting the maxims “I will work harder” and “Napoleon is always right”.
These two maxims soon reinforce each other when, three weeks after the banishment of Snowball, the animals learn that Napoleon supports the Windmill Project.
Squealer explains that their leader never really opposed the proposal, he simply used his apparent opposition as a manoeuvre to oust the wicked Snowball.
These tactics he claims, served to advance the collective best interest.
Squealers’ words proved so appealing, and the growls of his three dogs entourage so threatening, that the animals accept his explanation without question.
Another year passes.
The animals worked like slaves.
They all believed that they were doing it for their own benefit and that’s why no one complained.
The animals are asked to work Sunday afternoons as well.
If anyone did not come then their ration would be reduced by half.
The harvest was not so good and it was easy to predict that the winter would be a hard one.
Progress on the windmill is laborious and slow.
The stones with which it is to be built have to be hauled to the top of the quarry and thrown from there to the bottom, so that the stones can be broken into the appropriate sizes.
It takes until the end of the summer to accumulate enough stone to begin building the windmill work which depends almost entirely on the tremendous efforts of Boxer, who works himself harder than ever before.
As the work on the harvest and the windmill proceeds, the animals find themselves running out of supplies.
Items such as paraffin, seeds, manure and machinery, could not be produced on the farm.
This problem is resolved when Napoleon announces one day that Animal Farm will, henceforth, enter into trading arrangements with some of the surrounding farms.
Hay and wheat from the farm will be sold, and the hens are told that they will have to give up some of their eggs, a sacrifice that they should be proud to make.
Some of the animals are doubtful about this move, seeming to remember an agreement in the early days after the Rebellion never to have anything to do with the humans.
Again, Squealer puts any doubts to rest in the following days, informing them that such a resolution was never written down.
After this, Napoleon announced that no animal but he himself, will come in contact of the humans and would take the burden upon himself.
Mr. Whymper, a solicitor living in Willingdon was appointed for this purpose.
Squealer assured the animals that the resolution against engaging in trade and using money was a lie circulated by Snowball.
The Solicitor comes every Monday, and his presence makes the other animals very uneasy, but their doubts are eased by their pride in seeing Napoleon giving orders to a human.
Shortly afterwards, the pigs move into the farmhouse.
They eat in the kitchen, relax in the drawing room, and even sleep in the beds.
Some of the animals are very doubtful about this.
Clover consults the Seven Commandments on the gable wall, and asks Muriel to read out the fourth commandment, which states, “No animal shall sleep in a bed with sheets”.
Muriel cannot remember sheets being mentioned before.
However, helped by the smooth words of Squealer, she assumes that she must have been wrong.
She and the other animals accept his argument that the pigs, as the leaders, must have as much comfort as possible to facilitate their brain work.
The pigs even started to sleep an extra hour.
The work on the windmill continues.
The animals are all extremely proud of their progress, except for Benjamin, who expresses no opinion for or against the windmill.
By November, the windmill is half finished.
However, disaster strikes when a night time storm destroys it.
The animals all gather around the ruin.
Napoleon is silent for a long time, before making the sudden and dramatic announcement that the windmill was destroyed by Snowball.
Some pig footprints leading away from the farm are discovered, and Napoleon confirms that they belong to Snowball.
The other animals are shocked that their former leader could do such a thing.
Napoleon announces that work on rebuilding the windmill will commence immediately.
The winter had arrived and it was bitter and stormy weather.
The work continues on the windmill through the bitter winter because the animals want to prove themselves to the humans outside the farm, who doubt them.
These same humans say the windmill collapsed because the walls were too thin, but the animals continue to believe that Snowball is responsible.
However, they also decide to rebuild the windmill with thicker walls, which means they need more stones.
Collecting the stone in winter weather is slow and difficult, impeding their progress.
Only Boxer and Clover, with their unshakable work ethic, keep up the animals spirits.
Other problems also abound.
In January an improperly planted crop fails, leaving the farm with a severe food shortage from the outside world.
Napoleon and the animals work frantically to conceal the shortage from the outside world.
Rumours of famine are already circulating among the humans, so confirming these rumours would put the farm in danger.
The animals are instructed to talk about increased rations when Mr. Whymper is around.
Still, Napoleon makes arrangements to sell more of the hen’s eggs so the farm can buy grain to make up for the shortfall in their stores.
Wanting their eggs to become chicks, the hens rebel, laying their eggs in the hen house rafters so they fall to the floor and break.
Napoleon responds by withholding the hen’s rations, but their resistance still lasts for five days.
Nine hens die of starvation, but Napoleon makes sure the other animals are told they died of disease.
It was heard that Snowball was hiding in one of the adjoining farms.
There was a pile of timber and Mr. Pilkington and Mr. Frederick, were interested in it.
However, whenever the deal took shape, Snowball was noticed to be in that particular farm.
Everything bad that happened in the farm was put on Snowball’s head.
Even broken windows and blocked drains were put on his name.
All the bad things that happened were blamed on Snowball, even if the true causes became apparent later.
Eventually, Squealer announces Snowball has sold himself to Frederick and says Snowball was always in league with the humans, even fighting for Jones at the Battle of Cowshed.
Later, Napoleon uses the threat of Snowball to eliminate some of his enemies.
During a meeting, he sends his dogs after the four pigs who question his trade plans, the hens that have rebelled over the eggs, and a few other animals who confess to working with Snowball.
All of these animals are executed immediately.
This violence stuns the other animals, especially Clover.
After the executions, she and other animals got there on the knoll where the windmill stood.
In an attempt to comfort themselves, the animals try to sing ‘Beasts of England ‘but Squealer tells them the song in now banned, replaced with a new song swearing allegiance to Animal Farm.
Minimums, the poet, had composed it but somehow neither the words nor the tune was as appealing as ‘Beasts of England’.
After the executions, the animals question (away from the pigs and dogs) whether these events fall in line with the Seven Commandments; they think they remember, Sixth Commandment stating that, No animal shall kill another animal’.
Clover asked Muriel to read to her the Six Commandment.
It read, “No animal should kill other animal without cause”.
Somehow, the last two words were not in their memory.
Like the previous case, another commandment had been altered and the animals thought that the killings were justified.
The general conditions of the animals continue to be harsh, as the workload of rebuilding the windmill and regular form of duties require additional effort.
Although, the animals believe that they are getting no more food than they did under Mr. Jones, Squealer presents weekly numbers that seem to prove they are actually getting more food and are better off.
At this point, Squealer is doing most of Napoleon’s public speaking.
Napoleon has isolated himself in the farmhouse, away from even the other pigs, and rarely appears in public.
When three hens confess to plotting to assassinate Napoleon in summer, he becomes even more isolated, adds more guard dogs, and gets a food taster.
The four dogs guarded his bed at night and a pig, Pinkeye, was given the task to taste his food lest it should be poisoned.
The hens were executed.
The pigs circulated poems and songs praising Napoleon as the saviour and protector of all the animals.
The pile of timber remained still unsold though negotiations were on.
Frederick was more anxious to get hold of it but never offered a reasonable price.
Then there were also stories of him plotting an attack against the Animal Farm.
Snowball was also rumoured to be in his farm.
Napoleon made arrangements to sell the pile of timber to Pilkington and he was to enter in a regular agreement of trade between Animal Farm and Foxwood.
Windmill was nearing its completion and with it the rumours of impending attacks were also coming.
There were many stories like, Frederick bribing the officials to get away with the law and torturing animals in his farm.
After all of these rumours and stories, the animals were shocked to learn that Napoleon had sold the timber to Frederick and had been negotiating with Frederick in secret all along.
He spread the stories about selling to Pilkington only to get Frederick to meet his price.
The rumours about Frederick’s farm likely came from Snowball, who apparently is actually hiding on Pilkington’s farm.
Once they hear the whole story, the animals are proud of Napoleon’s negotiating powers and were also impressed that he is savvy enough to demand cash payment instead of cheque.
With the windmill finished and the timber sold, the machinery for the windmill can be purchased, and all their dreams come true.
However, three days after the sale, Mr. Whymper tells Napoleon that Frederick’s money has been counterfeited and he has cheated them all.
Napoleon pronounces a death sentence to Frederick and prepares for an attack the next morning.
The animals are outmatched and men have guns.
The animals send a message to Pilkington, who refuses to help.
The battle culminates when Frederick and his men blow up the finished windmill.
The animals, who have retreated, are outraged by this act and counter attack vigorously, suffering casualties but driving the humans from the farm.
The pigs declare a victory and hold a ceremony celebrating what they call, “the battle of the windmill”.
The animals, however, are crushed by the loss of the windmill and don’t understand why the pigs want to celebrate?
Squealer convinces them that the battle is a triumph because the animals held on to the farm, but they are not fully convinced until Napoleon speaks to them.
The fallen animals are given a funeral, and the rest of the animals receive extra rations.
A few days after the battle, the pigs discover whisky in the farmhouse and drink it.
That night many surprising sounds came from the farm house.
The pigs were drunk !
However, the morning brought bad news with it.
Squealer, who was not his usual self, announced that Napoleon was dying .
The atmosphere at once grew grave.
The rumour made its way that Snowball had eventually been successful in poisoning Napoleons’ food.
But his condition improved by evening and by next day he was back to work.
It was learned that Whymper had been asked to buy booklets on brewing and distilling.
A week later, Napoleon ordered that the grazing-ground for the retired animals would be ploughed up and soon it was realized that Napoleon wanted to sow it with barley.
One night, at about twelve O’clock, there was a loud crash in the yard.
All animals rushed to the spot.
At the foot of the fall, upon which the Seven Commandment were written, lay a broken ladder and near it, Squealer in deep pain.
There was a paint – brush and a pot of white paint also.
The dogs escorted him back to the farmhouse.
Benjamin seemed to understand everything but would say nothing.
Muriel, after a few days, noticed that there was another commandment that the animals had remembered wrong.
The Fifth Commandment did not read “No animal shall drink alcohol” as she had thought, but instead it read
“No animal shall drink alcohol to excess.”

Rebuilding of the windmill begins immediately after the celebration.
Boxer had been hurt in the battle of the windmill and was nursing a split hoof.
Boxer refused to take even a day off work and did not show any trouble.
Boxer works harder than ever.
His thoughts are now turning to retirement, for which, under the laws of Animal Farm, he is due next year.
In the meantime, another cold winter with little food must be endured.
The rations of all the animals except that of the pigs and the dogs, were reduced- Squealer was still making a fool of all the animals by giving them figures.
He informed them that they had been doing much better than the days of Jones and the animals believed him.
However, by now they have forgotten life under Jones.
Squealer never failed to point out that now they were not slaves.
The strain of the resources of the farm grows.
The four sows had given birth to thirty-one piglets between them.
It was easy to understand that they were Napoleon’s kids.
Napoleon announced that he would teach the piglets himself and that a new classroom must be built for the piglets, who are instructed to remain aloof from the other animals.
The schoolroom is in addition to the requirement to rebuild the windmill and the need to keep the farm supplied with various other requirements.
Potatoes are sold, and practically every egg laid by the hens is sold to earn the money required for these supplies.
There was a shortage of money.
The exploitation of the animals had long begun without their realising it.
The other animals were suffering but somehow the pigs were comfortable enough.
They were actually putting on weight when others were starving.
In February, the barley was prepared into beer and it was announced that all barley would be reserved for the pigs.
Napoleon was having the largest share of the beer daily.
Napoleon now introduces a weekly event called, the spontaneous demonstration, where every animal would leave its work to march in military procession around the farm, so as to instil pride in the animals in the achievements of the farm since the Rebellion.
It comforts the animals to know that, no matter how hard their lives are, at least they have the benefit of being their own masters.
In April, Animal Farm was proclaimed a Republic and Napoleon was made the President.
Later, more news about Snowball’s treachery were revealed.
Another consolation around this time is the reappearance of Moses, the raven and his tales of Sugar Candy mountains.
He returned after many years.
The animals failed to understand why he was being allowed to live on the farm when the pigs called him a liar.
They were tolerating him, giving him an allowance of beer everyday.
The building work around the farm continues through the summer, heavily dependent on the extraordinary efforts of Boxer.
He was famished and a bit old now but never faltered.
He is showing some signs at this stage that his strength is failing.
He himself is hoping to get as much work done as possible before he retires.
Then one summer evening, he collapses.
All the animals rush to his side, unable to bear the thought that anything might happen to him.
He was getting weak day after day but only his will kept him going.
He did not pay heed to Clover and Benjamin’s working, and one day his lungs gave away.
He was lying near the quarry unable to get up.
The pigs were informed at once, but Squealer came about a quarter of an hour later.
Squealer promised to send him to the town so that the veterinary surgeon can treat him.
Clover and Benjamin spend as much time as they can over the next few days nursing him.
Then, while all the animals are all at work, the van comes to take Boxer away.
They would not have noticed, except Benjamin, who gallops across the farm to tell them that Boxer is being taken away.
No one has ever seen Benjamin gallop before.
The animals rush to the yard in time to see the van begin to pull away.
They start to wave goodbye to Boxer, but Benjamin is very agitated, and tells them to read the letters on the van.
Muriel reads out the sign on the van, which describes the van as belonging to the local horse-slaughter.
The animals try to warn Boxer, who tries to kick his way out of the van, but he has no strength and the kicking from the van soon dies away.
Three days later Boxers’ death was announced.
Squealer informed everyday that he was with him at his death bed.
He makes a moving speech in praise of Boxer.
He explains the sign on the van by saying that the veterinary surgeon brought the van from the horse slaughter, and had not yet replaced the sign.
The animals are relieved to hear this, and are greatly consoled by Squealer’s further descriptions of the wonderful care and treatment that Boxer received in his final hours.
Napoleon pays his respects to Boxer at the meeting on the following Sunday.
He tells them that it was not possible to return Boxer’s remains for burial on the farm, but that he will be commemorated with a wreath instead.
Napoleon announces a memorable banquet for Boxer, which takes place in the farmhouse shortly afterwards, attended only by the pigs.
Then one night, there were strange sounds from the farmhouse and no one stirred out of it before noon the following day.
It was learnt that the pigs had acquired money to buy themselves whisky.
Several years passed by, many animals attained age and died and few recall the days before the Rebellion.
The animals completed a new windmill, which is used not only for generating electricity but for milling corn, a far more profitable endeavour.
The farm seems to have grown richer, but only the pigs and dogs live comfortable lives.
Squealer explains that the pigs and dogs do very important work-filling out farms.
The other animals largely accept this explanation, and their lives go on very much as before.
They never lose their sense of pride in Animal Farm or their feeling that they have differentiated themselves from animals on the other farms.
The inhabitants of Animals Farm still fervently believed in the goals of the Rebellion:a world free from humans, with equality for all animals.
One day, Squealer takes the sheep off to a remote spot to teach them a new chant.
He informed others that he was teaching them to sing a new song.
Not long afterward, the animals have just finished their day’s work when they hear the terrified neighing of a horse.
It is Clover, and she summons the others hastily to the yard.
There, the animals gaze in amazement at Squealer walking towards them on his hind legs.
Napoleon soon appears as well, walking, upright, worse, he carries a whip.
Before the other animals have a chance to react to the change, the sheep began to chant as if on cue : “ Four legs good, two legs better!” Clover whose eyes are foiling in her old age, asks Benjamin to read the writing on the barn wall where the Seven Commandments were originally inscribed.
Only the last Commandment remains : “All animals are equal”.
However, it now carries an addition : “But some animals are more equal than others.” In the days to follow, Napoleon openly begins smoking a pipe of Jones in his mouth and wears his clothes.
His favourite show was dressed in Mrs. Jones clothes, and the other pigs subscribe to human magazines, listen to the radio, and begin to install a telephone, also wearing human clothes that they have salvaged from Mr. Jones’ wardrobe.
One day, the pigs invite neighbouring human farmers over to inspect Animal Farm.
The farmers praise the pigs and express, in diplomatic language, their regret for past “misunderstandings”.
The other animals, led by Clover, watch through a window as Mr. Pilkington and Napoleon toast each other, and Mr Pilkington declares that the farmers share a problem with pigs.
“If you have your lower animals to contend with,” he says, “We have our lower classes!”.
Mr. Pilkington notes with appreciation that the pigs have found ways to make Animal Farm’s animals work harder and on less food than any other group of farm animals in the county.
He adds that he looks forward to introducing these advances on his own farm.
Napoleon replies by reassuring his human guests that the pigs never wanted anything other than to conduct business peacefully with their human neighbours and that they have taken steps further to that goal.
Animals on Animal Farm will no longer address one another as “Comrade”, he says, or pay homage to Old Major, nor will they salute a flag with a horn and hoof upon it.
All of these customs have been changed recently by decree, he assures the men.
Napoleon even announces that Animal Farm will now be known as the Manor Farm, which is, he believes, its “Correct and original name”.
The pigs and farmers return to their amiable card game, and the other animals creep away from the window.
Soon the sounds of a quarrel draw them back to listening.
Napoleon and Pilkington have played the ace of spades simultaneously, and each accuses the other of cheating.
The animals, watching through the window, realize with a start that, as they look around the room of the farmhouse, they can no longer distinguish which of the card players are pigs and which are human beings.
The concept of the story ‘All Summer in a Day’, is built on Venus – a planet where it rains continuously, all the time.
The people live in underground tunnels to escape the cold hard rain.
The story begins with school children crowding around a window in their classroom, waiting for the heavy rain to stop and for a rare occurrence i.e., the sun, to come out for an hour after seven years of non-stop rain, as per prediction.
They had seen the sun only when they were two years old.
Margot is a nine year old girl whose family moved from Earth to Venus when she was four.
Only she remembers the warmth of the sun and how beautiful the sunshine can be.
She explains to other children that sun is round like a penny and hot like fire but they consider her a liar, despise her and mock at her.
She has been in a state of depression ever since she arrived on Venus and her parents were planning to take her back on Earth.
As Margot stands alone waiting for the rain to subside and the long awaited sun to appear, the other children plan a terrible trick on her.
They forcefully carry her to the closet and lock her inside.
Wickedly pleased with themselves, they return and move along with the teacher to experience the event they were waiting for.
When the Venus rain finally stops and sun comes out, a bronze flame spreads throughout the forests of Venus.
The children exit the tunnels and run around excitedly.
But soon the rain clouds move in.
The sun hides and heavy showers replace it.
All the children reflect on the wonderful experience they had with the sun and then re-enter the tunnels.
Suddenly, one of the children remembers that they had locked Margot inside the closet.
Slowly she is taken out, but its too late for her, she will have to wait yet another seven years to see the sun which she had been so earnestly waiting for.
The Narrator takes a vacation and, on a beach, he meets a strange man named Tyler Durden, who gives the Narrator his phone number.
When the Narrator returns home, he finds that his condominium has exploded.
With nowhere else to go, he calls Tyler, who allows the Narrator to crash at his house for a while.
One day, Tyler convinces the Narrator to hit him as hard as he can; reluctantly, the Narrator does so.
Tyler and the Narrator then realize that they love fighting, because it makes them feel alive and “real.”
While the Narrator sleeps at Tyler’s house, he continues working at his corporate job, which requires him to travel around the country calculating the cost of recalling dangerous cars his company has built.
Tyler, meanwhile, works odd jobs as a waiter at a hotel and a projectionist in a movie theater.
Tyler uses his jobs to sabotage society: he urinates in fancy dishes at the hotel, and splices single frames of pornography into family movies.
Tyler and the Narrator found a secret society called “fight club,” in which members fight one another in order to get in touch with visceral reality and their own masculinity.
Tyler receives a call at his house from Marla, and goes to Marla’s hotel.
Following this incident, Tyler and Marla begin having loud, frequent sex in the house, irritating the Narrator.
Tyler tells the Narrator not to mention him in front of Marla, or the Narrator will never see Tyler again.
Tyler also shows the Narrator his other source of income: making soap and selling it to fancy department stores.
During one soap-making session, Tyler kisses the Narrator’s hand and pours lye it, giving him a scar that looks like “Tyler’s kiss.” Tyler insists that he’s trying to get the Narrator to embrace death and pain so that he can find enlightenment.
Marla regularly stops by Tyler’s house to drop off shipments of collagen, removed from her mother’s aging body by liposuction.
Secretly Tyler converts the collagen into beautiful, creamy bars of soap, which he sells for a big profit—when Marla finds out, she’s furious.
The Narrator notices that he, Tyler, and Marla are never in the same room together.
Marla calls the Narrator and asks him to examine her for breast cancer; they learn that she does have breast cancer, and afterwards, Marla begins attending cancer support groups for real.
Meanwhile, the police call the Narrator and tell him that they suspect that someone—possibly the Narrator himself—blew up his condominium.
Meanwhile, fight club becomes bigger and bigger, to the point where other chapters spring up across the country.
Tyler forms a new secret society within the secret society, called Project Mayhem.
Tyler subjects his Project Mayhem recruits to a brutal initiation process, and afterwards urges them to sacrifice their own happiness and identity for the good of the movement.
Tyler hosts hundreds of Project Mayhem members in his house, all of whom are slavishly loyal to him.
He also sends out his followers on missions to “destroy society,” often through bombings or vandalism.
The Narrator continues to keep Marla company and support her through her struggle with cancer.
One evening, The Narrator gets a call at work from Tyler, telling him to get into a Project Mayhem car waiting for him.
The Narrator does so, and the driver, a mechanic, swerves the car on and off the road while asking The Narrator, “What did you want to do before you died?” The Narrator answers, “Quit my job.” As they drive, the Narrator becomes so depressed with the meaningless of his own life that he tries to drive the car into oncoming traffic—the Mechanic prevents him from doing so.
While Project Mayhem goes on as usual, Tyler disappears altogether.
The Narrator, confused, tries to track down Tyler by going to different bars and clubs.
Each time, the bartenders address him as “Sir.” Eventually, the Narrator realizes the truth: everyone thinks that he is Tyler Durden.
The Narrator calls Marla and she, too, addresses him as Tyler.
Suddenly, Tyler appears before the Narrator and explains that he’s the Narrator’s alter ego.
He and the Narrator share the same body, but Tyler is braver and more charismatic than the Narrator—he’s The Narrator’s unconscious, the wish fulfillment of his repressed desires.
The Narrator has been the one having sex with Marla, organizing Project Mayhem missions, and converting human fat into soap and explosives.
The Narrator, frightened of what he’s becoming, tells Marla the truth.
The Narrator tries to shut down Project Mayhem and the fight club, only to realize that “Tyler” has prepared his loyal followers for such a possibility: the members throw the Narrator out and begin keeping tabs on him.
The Narrator discovers that his boss has died in a freak explosion, and he realizes that Tyler and Project Mayhem are responsible.
Project Mayhem tracks down the Narrator, addressing him as “Mr.
Durden,” and prepares to castrate him for his disloyalty.
The Narrator loses consciousness.
The Narrator wakes up in the ruins of his old condominium, (he hasn’t been castrated).
He considers committing suicide, but realizes that he cares about Marla and has to protect her.
He finds Marla, who tells him that “he” (as Tyler) has murdered more people.
The Narrator loses consciousness again, and finds himself at the top floor of a skyscraper (right where he was at the beginning of the novel).
Tyler explains that “they” will now die in a blaze of glory.
Suddenly, Marla and the members of her cancer support group walk into the skyscraper, where they find the Narrator pointing a gun at himself.
The timer for the bomb goes off, but nothing happens—the Narrator realizes that Tyler and Project Mayhem must have used faulty explosives.
Nevertheless, he shoots himself in the face.
In the final chapter of the book, the Narrator reveals that his suicide attempt didn’t work: he shot through his neck and ear, leaving him injured but alive.
Tyler hasn’t disturbed him since his suicide attempt.
Marla writes him letters while he recovers in the hospital.
Occasionally, members of Project Mayhem stop by and, addressing him as “Mr.
Durden,” say that they’re eager for him to get back to work.
As the novel begins we find Tyler Durden holding a gun inside the Narrator's mouth.
Tyler tells the Narrator that the first step toward eternal life is death.
The Narrator mentions that he and Tyler used to be friends and that people were always asking him about Tyler.
Tyler assures the Narrator that they won't really die, but that they will become legends.
The Narrator reveals that the building they are standing on, the Parker-Morris building, will be demolished in ten minutes.
A bomb has been set to knock the building down.
In the building, in the one hundred ninety-one floors, the Space Monkeys in the Mischief Committee of Project Mayhem are throwing file cabinets and furniture out the windows.
Now, the Narrator says, there are nine minutes left.
He details numerous ways to make home explosives.
When the bombs detonate the building will topple onto a national museum, which is Tyler's true target.
The Narrator states the entire situation is really about Marla Singer.
He wants to be with Tyler, Tyler wants to be with Marla, Marla wants to be with the Narrator.
This creates an awkward triangle.
The Narrator tells Tyler that if he wants to be a legend, he'll make him a legend.
He remembers everything.
Chapter 2 moves the narrative to another location entirely.
It is not initially revealed where this chapter is set.
The Narrator tells us about Bob, a former bodybuilder.
Bob holds the Narrator in a tight embrace.
The Narrator tells us that Bob has unnaturally large breasts and finely parted blonde hair.
Bob cries as he holds the Narrator and then encourages the Narrator to cry as well.
The Narrator reveals that Bob is crying because six months prior, his testicles were removed and he began hormone support therapy.
The testosterone ration was too high and his body raised the estrogen to seek a balance.
This led to his development of breasts.
The Narrator says that this is when he cries, when Bob asks him to.
It allows him to lose himself in his despair, he says.
He also reveals that Bob loves him because Bob thinks that the Narrator's testicles were removed too.
This is because the two are at a testicular support group called Remaining Men Together.
Around them twenty other men are locked in embrace, crying about their lot in life.
There is also one woman there: Marla Singer.
Like the Narrator, Marla Singer does not have testicular cancer.
The Narrator reveals that he has been seeing Marla at the other support groups he has been crashing.
She is faking these conditions just as he is.
With Marla watching, the Narrator can't bring himself to cry.
He has to cry in order to sleep.
Moving back further in time, the Narrator says that he first began attending the groups two years ago after consulting a doctor about his insomnia.
He hopes that the doctor can give him some medication to help him sleep but instead the doctor tells him to get more exercise and chew Valerian root.
The doctor tells him that if he wants to see real pain, he should attend these support group meetings and see the people dying of cancer or stricken with parasites.
The Narrator takes up his suggestion.
He meets a woman named Chloe who has brain parasites.
The Narrator describes her as a "skeleton dipped in yellow wax".
She tells him that the saddest thing about her predicament is that no one would have sex with her.
She tries to seduce him, but the Narrator is not aroused.
The group then moved to guided meditation.
Each participant is encouraged to enter "their cave" and find "their power animal".
The Narrator's power animal, he discovers, is a penguin.
Then the group members embraced, but the Narrator did not cry then.
He didn't cry until he met Bob.
Bob was a bodybuilder who destroyed his body with anabolic steroids.
After multiple divorces he was diagnosed with testicular cancer.
Then he went bankrupt.
It was at their first meeting, while Bob was holding the Narrator, that he was able to cry.
As a result, he could also finally sleep.
"This was freedom", he says, "Losing all hope was freedom."
Now that Marla has been attending the meetings, the Narrator cannot cry.
He has gone for three weeks without a good night's sleep.
He decides that when he next sees Marla Singer, he's going to confront her for the liar and faker that she is and tell her to leave.
"This is the one real thing in my life, and you're wrecking it."
Chapter 3 introduces a sort of montage sequence in which the Narrator is flying around the country, waking up as he lands at various airports.
The Narrator states that every time the plane banked he prayed for it to crash.
He works as a recall coordinator for the auto industry.
His job is to fly around the country surveying car crashes involving his company's cars.
His job is to apply a formula to determine if the company should instate a recall or simply prepare to pay out of court settlements in the event of any lawsuits.
Whichever the cheaper option happens to be, that is what his company will do.
The Narrator begins to talk about Tyler Durden.
Tyler worked night jobs and only night jobs.
As a projectionist at old movie theaters, he worked to cue the changeover from one reel to another at the right moment in the film.
While working this job, Tyler splices frames of pornographic films into the reels of newly released family films.
For a fraction of a second during the film, a close-up of an erection flashes across the screen.
Tyler also works as a banquet waiter at a downtown hotel.
The Narrator, tired of his job, decides to go on vacation, where he visits a nude beach.
There, he meets Tyler Durden.
Tyler, naked and covered in gritty sand, pulls driftwood logs out of the sea and drags them to the beach.
He constructs a sculpture out of them that casts a shadow in the shape of a human hand.
The Narrator watches him do this.
When it's finished, Tyler asks the Narrator what time it is, so that he can know at what time the shadow from the sun is just right.
As Tyler goes to leave the Narrator asks him if he is an artist.
Tyler gives him his phone number.
Chapter 4 returns to the support group meetings.
The Narrator says that the last time he was at the meeting Chloe announced that she no longer had any fear of death.
As he arrives tonight, the Narrator learns that Chloe has died.
The Narrator says he should feel something at hearing this news, some sort of release.
But because Marla is there, watching him, he can't.
During guided meditation, the Narrator only finds Marla in the cave of his power animal.
Marla just smokes her cigarette in the cave.
After meditation, the Narrator moves to Marla for the part of the meeting where individuals embrace.
He picks her.
He confronts her about being a faker.
She simply replies that he's a faker too, and that if he wants to expose her, she'll expose him as well.
The Narrator proposes that they split the week's meetings up so that they never have to see each other at them.
Marla refuses.
She wants all the meetings.
She tells him that she used to work at a funeral home.
She won't go back to how her life used to be.
The Narrator tells her he's been coming to these meeting for two years.
She relents and says he can have the testicular cancer support group meetings.
"This," the Narrator intones, "is how I met Marla Singer."
As we meet him, the Narrator seems to be a miserable, lonely person.
He attends support group meetings to feel some connection with other people.
These people, all facing or having faced terrible life-threatening or life-altering diseases and conditions, are the only people he feels he can really relate to.
He is numb inside, his life devoid of meaning or direction.
As the Narrator begins to discuss his job, he states that he wishes he would die while he is flying around the country, assessing car crashes for his company.
However, it is difficult to believe he is entirely sincere in his suicidal thoughts, due to the passivity of his chosen method of possible suicide.
Consider the implications of the Narrator's job.
He is essentially employed to apply his company's bottom line against the potential cost of human lives.
The job is undoubtedly depressing and morally questionable.
This dehumanizing practice is echoed in Palahniuk's overall critique of a consumer-driven society that promises things it cannot deliver but is also revisited in Tyler's implementation of Project Mayhem.
Consider this contrast in particular in light of Big Bob's death later in the novel and how it is regarded by the other members.
The Narrator's pattern of self-pity is evident again when he visits a doctor about his insomnia.
He wants the doctor to give him pills to help him sleep.
The doctor gives him sound advice, stressing that he should find out what the problem is that is causing his insomnia and pay attention to that.
Instead the Narrator hopes for a temporary pharmaceutical solution to his problems.
The doctor tells him that he should attend a support group meeting and see people dealing with real pain and real problems.
Instead of appreciating the analogy and realizing that he is still healthy enough to change his life and isn't dying of a terrible disease, the Narrator becomes addicted to the meetings, further wallowing in self-pity and misery.
He begins attending one meeting every night of the week for two years, suggesting a highly compulsive nature.
During these meetings he can allow himself to embrace his feelings enough to make him cry.
Crying allows him to feel accepted, if not by society as a whole, then at least by those around him in the meeting.
He can sleep again.
Regardless, his life does not change fundamentally.
The Narrator makes no mention of seeking a new job to replace the one he hates.
He doesn't seek out anything to make him happy.
His behavior is apathetic, even cowardly.
When Marla Singer arrives, ruining his ability to cry freely, he despises her for exposing him to the truth of his deception.
Marla is guilty of the same fakery that he is, but she has the fortitude to at least give her real name when she goes to the meetings.
The Narrator never gives his real name.
He admits that he's been going to the meetings for so long anyone who might have suspected he was faking has already died.
In Marla he sees his lie reflected back at him.
He decides to confront her and tells her that he will expose her.
He judges her behavior even though it is the same as his.
She does not judge him or confront him.
Marla accepts who she is and her situation.
She may not like it but she doesn't complain.
Despite their differences, the two of them are looking for the same thing from the meetings: meaningful contact.
Consider the implications of the Narrator's deception of the members of the support groups as the novel progresses.
Even though the Narrator is searching for human contact, he is also exploiting the members of these groups to earn a certain status.
Though that status is largely more about acceptance, it is no less a manipulation.
Compare and contrast this with Tyler Durden's interactions with the Narrator and members of fight club as the novel progresses.
The Narrator goes on vacation and visits a nude beach, where he meets Tyler.
While the Narrator does not make any sort of obvious statements about physical attraction to Tyler, this scene has undeniable homoerotic overtones.
The two men meet on a nude beach, both naked, and exchange contact information.
While a sexual relationship may not be what the Narrator is seeking from Tyler, there is the sense that he admires him and wants to become better acquainted with him.
As Chapter 4 ends, the Narrator has met a man to whom he is attracted and a woman he claims he detests.
Keep this in mind in particular as both men discuss the roles that their fathers did (or did not) play in their lives.
The Narrator seems to be striving for the acceptance of a father figure in his life.
Tyler comes to be that figure.
Some scholars have also taken particular interest in the passage in which Tyler Durden splices pornography into family films.
Krister Friday, for example, asserts that Tyler's subliminal insertion of an erection into family films is itself an assertion of masculine prowess in an otherwise emasculated world or medium.
This use of the image of an erection as a means of protest can be seen as a strike against the concept of a weakening masculine identity in contemporary society.
That this image is meant to shock or disturb also suggests that Tyler Durden's view is that masculinity itself has become something to be marginalized and forgotten, replaced with a dynamic that some scholars see more akin to the feminine.
This view also suggests that Tyler's philosophy has misogynistic tendencies, blaming a "generation of women" for raising their sons to be less than men.
Twyla declares that she and Roberta were taken to St. Bonny’s orphanage because Twyla’s mother (Mary) “danced all night” and Roberta’s mother was unwell.
They do not get along when they are first introduced to one another.
When Twyla informs Big Bozo (the person in charge of the shelter) that Mary has taught her to have prejudiced views about Roberta’s race, Bozo rudely rejects her.
The girls eventually get along because they can understand each other without having to ask each other questions.
The fact that Twyla can’t recall anything she learns, and Roberta hasn’t yet learned to read, both of them receive Fs “all of the time” which helps them to become closer.
They are forced to be together since they are separated from the other students at St. Bonny’s because they are not “real orphans with beautiful dead parents in the sky.”
Twyla and Roberta are sometimes picked on by older girls (or “gar girls”), who wear makeup and appear intimidating but are fragile runaways.
The older girls gather in the orchard, where they dance and listen to music.
Twyla has frequent nightmares about the orchard, but she isn’t sure why because “nothing really happened there,” except for one instance in which Maggie fell down there.
Maggie is an old “sandy-colored” woman with several disabilities who works in the kitchen.
She walks with bow legs that make her rock and sway.
She is also dumb and may be deaf.
Mary and Roberta’s mother visit on Sunday and attend church services and lunch at St. Bonny’s.
Twyla and Roberta are pleased about this opportunity; they dress nicely and curl each other’s hair.
But when Roberta presents her mother to Twyla and Mary, Roberta’s mother just walks away and doesn’t say anything.
When Mary doesn’t bring any food for them to eat, Twyla feels even more humiliated and thinks she could kill Mary.
The plot leaps ahead eight years.
On the Thruway, Twyla works at Howard Johnson’s.
When a Greyhound Bus makes a stop at the cafe one day, Twyla recognizes Roberta among the travelers, along with two young guys.
Roberta is dressed in a way and with makeup “that made the big girls look like nuns.” The two ladies engage in a brief, casual conversation, but Roberta comes out as rude and uninterested.
When Twyla unintentionally admits that she is unaware of Jimi Hendrix, Roberta scoffs.
Before Roberta can go without saying goodbye, Twyla questions her mother’s health.
After expressing that she is alright and asking about Mary, Roberta departs.
The timeline jumps another twelve years.
Twyla is now married to a man called James, whose family has a long history in Newburgh, and the two are parents to a child named Joseph.
Despite having a high level of poverty, Newburgh is gentrifying at the same time as a gourmet market has opened there.
Twyla stops by out of curiosity, but she is hesitant to make a purchase.
She finally makes the decision to only purchase Klondike bars because her son and father-in-law love them.
Roberta, who is dressed elegantly, tells Twyla she is now living in the wealthy neighborhood of Annandale with her husband and four stepchildren.
They run into each other at the checkout.
Roberta recommends that the two women go out for coffee.
The women laugh and giggle while closely holding onto each other at the coffee shop, “behaving like sisters separated for much too long.” They share memories of their time spent at St. Bonny’s, and Roberta proudly displays her newfound reading ability.
Twyla brings up Maggie, and Roberta argues that Maggie did not fall into the orchard but was pushed by the other girls.
Twyla doesn’t believe her, but Roberta confesses that she knows since she returned to St. Bonny’s twice and fled the second time.
When Twyla brings up the time Roberta ignored her at Howard Johnson’s, Roberta explains her actions to the racial tensions of the period.
Twyla gets confused since she recalls several interracial groups of friends going into the cafe together, but she ignores it.
The two women express concern for each other’s mothers, swear to stay in touch, and depart from each other.
Twyla notes that in the autumn of that year, Newburgh was consumed in “racial strife” due to the problem of forced integration through busing.
One day, Roberta is holding a placard that reads “MOTHERS HAVE RIGHTS TOO!” while Twyla unintentionally drives by a busing protest.
Twyla is compelled to drive back and confront Roberta.
The two ladies discuss the protest that quickly turns into frustrated and petty fighting.
Some of the protesting women eventually start to rock Twyla’s car.
She extends her hand for Roberta’s help, but Roberta stays still.
After the women leave, Roberta remarks that she has changed from the child she once was, but Twyla hasn’t changed at all—”the same little state kid who kicked a poor old black lady when she was down on the ground.” Twyla replies that Maggie wasn’t black, which surprises her.
Roberta swears she was, and that the two of them both kicked her.
Twyla returns to join a counter-protest, waving a series of banners that specifically address Roberta and make no sense to anybody else.
When Roberta sees the final sign, “IS YOUR MOTHER WELL?” she appears to give up the protest.
Twyla decides not to attend because Roberta has left.
More time goes by.
It’s the time of Christmas, and Joseph is now at college.
Twyla chooses to stop and have a cup of coffee on her way back after buying a Christmas tree.
She observes a gathering of wealthy people outside the cafe dressed for the event and admits, “It made me tired to look at them.” Twyla enters the restaurant and discovers Roberta, who has undoubtedly arrived from the hotel event.
Twyla first refuses when Roberta requests to talk with her, but later gives in.Before Roberta confesses that there is something she had told herself she would tell Twyla if the two ever met again, the women engage in some light small talk.
Roberta acknowledges that she mistakenly believed Maggie to be black, but that she and Twyla never really kicked Maggie; rather, they only stood by and watched as the Gar girls did it.
Roberta adds that it would have been just as horrible if the girls had really injured Maggie.
Twyla consoles Roberta when she breaks down in tears because she thinks Roberta is upset due to her drunkenness.
Twyla comforts her friend by telling her that they were just lonely eight-year-old kids.
Twyla inquires about Roberta’s mother, who appears to be feeling better.
Twyla confirms that Mary never quit dancing, and Roberta regrets the fact that she never got better.
Roberta then abruptly experiences despair again, and the narrative closes with her yelling, “Shit, shit, shit.
What the hell happened to Magie?
Morrison’s “Recitatif” is a narrative that is deliberately unspecific in terms of the characters’ races.
Morrison includes hints that make it difficult for the reader to determine Twyla and Roberta’s potential races, even though it is stated at the opening of the novel that one of the characters is white and one is black.
As Twyla tells the reader at the beginning of the narrative, “they never washed their hair and they smelled funny,” the reader is made to conclude that Roberta is black.
The Easter gathering, however, appears to contradict this notion as Roberta’s mother exits with her daughter rather than shaking Mary’s hand.
The rest of the story is filled with contradicting elements that one would expect to find as clues to the race of the two significant protagonists.
Morrison highlights the struggle with identification and the impact situations have on a person’s self-confidence and sense of self through the usage of racial ambiguity.
Despite the possibility that “Recitatif” is a commentary on the role of racism, the unclear nature of the topic causes the women’s separate journeys to take center stage.
It is difficult to read Morrison’s “Recitatif” without trying to figure out the “truth” about Twyla Benson and Roberta Fisk Norton’s given races.
The narrative contains a deeper search for the truth.
The reader is informed at the beginning of the narrative that Twyla’s mother “danced all night and Roberta’s was sick.” What is not made clear to the reader is what was meant by the words “danced” or “sick.” At first look, it seems that Roberta’s mother is physically unwell and that Twyla’s mother is more focused on her personal enjoyment.
This “truth” turns out to be the fact that Twyla’s mother is a terrible caretaker and that Roberta’s mother has a mental disorder as the plot develops.
Roberta’s worries about her past and her worries about Twyla’s ability to reveal those realities are highlighted in their next encounters.
Every time they cross paths, Roberta’s dress and behavior, which change depending on the circumstance, are described.
While Twyla seems comfortable with who she is and her background, Roberta is obviously looking for a persona and identity that conceal her history.
At Howard Johnson, Twyla does seem to protect herself against Roberta’s rudeness, but a later encounter reveals her desire to learn the truth about what happened, and eventually, her relationship with Roberta.
There is also a search for the truth about Maggie’s character throughout the entire story.
The differences in their memories are brought to light during occasional conversations between Twyla and Roberta.
Actually, Twyla does not remember Roberta’s behavior during the protests; rather, it is her assertion that Maggie was black, which Twyla cannot imagine not remembering.
The fact that she didn’t remember earlier in the story that Maggie wasn’t just pushed down in the apple orchard but also that the other girls in the orchard were responsible for her fall emphasizes her memory loss even more.
Throughout the novel, there is an underlying question about how a person realizes their truth.
Maggie is a character that appears regularly in Morrison’s “Recitatif,” although she doesn’t go through any character development.
The reader just has a vague understanding of her age, muteness, and “legs like parentheses.” Morrison uses Maggie to represent those who are powerless to resist the injustices that society imposes on them.
Maggie has to put up with the “gar girls,” a group of young girls who regularly humiliate and ridicule her since she is powerless to defend herself.
However, we see through Roberta’s personality that Maggie also represents the anxiety that comes from being powerless to prevent situations beyond one’s control.
At the conclusion of the story, Roberta tells Twyla that Maggie, like her mother, spent her life in institutions and that she (Roberta) feared living a similar life.
Roberta’s anxieties of being unimportant and living a life without purpose are brought into focus by the story’s concluding phrase, “What the hell happened to Maggie?”
Twyla sees Maggie as a representation of memory and the uncertainties that surround it.
In Twyla’s later interactions with Roberta, every time she brings up Maggie, Twyla either forgets or misinterprets the underlying fact or piece of information.
Given that neither Twyla nor Roberta is quite certain of who Maggie is, the significance of her race is not about race in and of itself but rather the insignificance of the character.
Maggie is a representation of the characters’ worst fear in a story about people trying to figure out who they are.
The author of A Visit to Cambridge is Firdaus Kanga.
He was a journalist and had traveled all over the world.
He was also handicapped but he never let that become his disability in any way.
Also, he was an inspiration to the people around him.
In this story, the author shares one of his experiences in England.
The author describes his visit to Cambridge University where he got a chance to interview Stephen Hawking.
Hawking told him that he found it funny when people patronized him.
He also added that he was not left with any choice other than being brave and accept his condition.
The author found Stephen Hawking to be one of the most beautiful men in the world.
At the end of the interview, Hawking gave a bit of advice to the handicapped people to concentrate on what is good in them.
They can thus surely succeed in life.
This chapter is an experience of the author in England.
Cambridge University always had a great appeal for him.
But, after an interview with Stephen Hawking, it became more appealing to him.
During a walking tour there he met Stephen Hawking.
Stephen William Hawking was an astrophysicist and was a disabled person.
He was the successor of Isaac Newton’s chair in the Physics Department at Cambridge University.
He was the author of the book, ‘A Brief History of Time’, the biggest best-seller of his times.
After the walking tour was over, he called at Steven Hawking’s house.
His assistant answered the call.
The author told him that he has come all the way from India and that he was in a wheelchair.
He also indicated that he wished to write a book based on his travels in England and also his desire to meet Stephen Hawking.
The assistant fixed the time from 3:30 to 4 for the meeting.
The author was surprised to see that a machine was supporting his body.
However, he composed himself to ask questions.
On being asked about his courage, Hawking replied that he had no other option than to be brave and accept his situation.
He said that he was amused to see that people patronize him.
When the author asked him that did he feels annoyed when people like him disturb him.
He replied yes with a smile.
During the interview, Hawking appears to be the most beautiful man in the world to the author.
The author also questioned him that is it that due to the disability, Hawking is not able to see humility and kindness in the world.
Hawking agreed to this with the author.
The interview came to the end with a piece of advice for the disabled or handicapped people.
He said that they need to focus on the good in them and not their disability.
They should not become over-enthusiastic and should do only in which they are good.
After this, Hawking went into his garden.
The author felt that his journey is inspiring as well as successful.
The poet as a little boy had clear imagination.
He loved adventure.
He took a liking to reading books and discovered a lot of joy in reading.
While reading he would become so engrossed’ in it, that he would forget the hard and dull work of the day.
After reading a book on the life of Eskimos, he imagines to be living with the Eskimos in the land of ice and snow.
He goes hunting and fishing there in the world of fantasy.
The book transports him to the world of imagination.
He feels as if he is living with them, as his mind sets his fantasy aglow.
When he read the book written by Jules Verne, he went off to the moon to take a look at it.
After virtually enjoying his visit, he comes back to reality.
The book by Dr. Livingstone takes him to the forests of Africa.
He learns the ways of the jungle life under the guidance of the author.
He reads ‘The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn’ and pays a visit to America in his imagination.
He prefers to do the wonderful deeds done by the heroes of the novels and become a hero himself.
Of course, all in the world of fantasy and imagination.
As the poet grows up, his childish fantasies come to an end.
He becomes serious about the harsh realities of life.
He could no longer lose himself in the imaginary world.
The poet says that he still likes the mysterious nature of the books.
He wants us to understand that books are windows to the world.
Sitting at home, we can explore the whole universe.
We can transport ourselves to those unknown, unseen places and experience the same joy we get when we visit those places in reality.
The present story is set in the future when children don’t have traditional books and schools.
Margie, a little girl in the story, makes a diary entry-Tommy found a real book’.
The entry reveals the date, 21st May 2157, showing that the story is set much into the future.
The book was a very old one, just like the one that her grandfather had in his time as a student.
Its pages were yellow and she found it funny to read the words that were not moving like that on a computer screen.
When Tommy had the book in his hand, he called it a waste because after one time reading, it could be thrown away.
The same feeling was with Margie too.
Tommy found that book in the attic of his house and that book was about a school.
Margie hated her school and her mechanical teacher a lot.
Her teacher was not a living being.
He was an image that flashes on her screen in her study room.
He gave her test after test in geography, and she was not doing well.
Her failure in geography had invited an inspector who tried to trace out the problem.
So, her mother had asked the County Inspector to come and find what was wrong.
The County Inspector was a round little man with a red face.
Margie had thought that he would take her mechanical teacher away completely, but it was not so.
The Inspector set the teacher right within an hour or so.
He told her mother that nothing was wrong with the girl rather the screen was too fast for the girl and therefore Margie was having troubles.
Now, it had been slowed down so that, she would be okay with its level.
Margie’s schoolroom was next to her bedroom, where the mechanical teacher was on and waiting for Margie.
Her school was open every day except Saturday and Sunday.
Margie’s mother believed that girls learn better if they do it regularly.
The mechanical teacher (the screen lit up and started) was going to teach lesson on arithmetic.
It was about the addition of proper factions.
Margie had no interest in it.
Margie had to put yesterday’s homework in the proper slot too.
The mechanical teacher never forgot to ask for the homework.
She was determined to lead a normal life and pursue her interest in music.
One day, she noticed a girl playing a xylophone and decided that she wanted to play it too.
Most of the teachers discouraged her but percussionist (a person who plays tabla or drum) Ron Forbes encouraged her.
He began by tuning two large drums to different notes.
Evelyn could feel the different notes of the drum in her body.
The rest was sheer determination and hard work.
She travelled the United Kingdom with a youth orchestra and by the time she was sixteen, she had decided to make music her life.
She auditioned for the Royal Academy of Music and scored one of the highest marks in the history of the academy.
She gradually left the orchestral work and started giving solo performances.
At the end of her three year course, she had received most of the top awards.
She explains that music flows through every part of her body.
It tingles in the skin, her cheekbones and even in her hair.
When she plays the xylophone, she can sense the sound passing up the stick into her fingertips.
By leaning against the drums, she can feel the resonances (sounds) flowing into her body.
On a wooden platform, she removes her shoes so that the vibrations pass through her bare feet and up her legs.
Emperor Aurangzeb had banned the playing of a musical instrument called pungi in the royal residence, as it had a shrill and unpleasant sound.
A barber of a family of professional musicians decided to improve the tonal quality of the pungi.
He played the improved instrument before royalty and everyone was impressed.
The instrument had to be given a new name.
As the story goes, since it was first played in the Shah’s chambers and was played by a nai (barber), the instrument was named the ‘shehnai’.
The sound of the shehnai began to be considered auspicious.
And for this reason, it is still played in temples and is an indispensable component (important part) of any North Indian wedding.
In the past, the shehnai was part of the naubat or traditional ensemble (group) of nine instruments found at royal courts.
The credit for bringing this instrument onto the classical stage goes to Ustad Bismillah Khan.
Bismillah belongs to a well-known family of musicians from Bihar.
His grandfather, father and other paternal ancestors were also great shehnai players.
Bismillah was fascinated at watching his uncles practise the shehnai.
He started accompanying his uncle Ali Bux and slowly, he started getting lessons in playing the instrument and would sit practising throughout the day.
The flowing waters of the Ganga inspired him to put together and create ragas that were earlier considered to be beyond that range of the shehnai.
With the opening of the All-India Radio in Lucknow in 1938 came Bismillah’s big break.
He soon became an often-heard shehnai player on radio.
When India gained independence on 15th August 1947, Bismillah Khan became the first Indian to greet the nation with his shehnai.
Film director Vijay Bhatt was so impressed after hearing him play at a festival that he named a film after the instrument called ‘Gunj Uthi Shehnai’.
Bismillah Khan became the first Indian to be invited to perform at the prestigious Lincoln Centre Hall in the United States of America.
National awards like the Padmashri, the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan were conferred on him.
In 2001, Ustad Bismillah Khan was awarded India’s highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna.
Despite travelling to many countries, he was exceedingly fond of Benaras and Dumraon and they remain for him the most wonderful towns of the world.
He even refused a position in America saying that he cannot find the Ganga there.
Whenever, he was travelling abroad his heart kept aching for his homeland.
Gerrard was talking over the phone when the intruder (a criminal) came into the room with a gun in his hand.
Gerrard was shocked at this but he kept himself calm and did not panic.
He tried to ask his name but he did not tell his name.
The intruder was much interested in knowing the full name of Gerrard.
He also wanted to know about his habits, his talking styles and about his other activities.
Gerrard was very surprised to know that the intruder knew a few things about him.
Gerrard engaged intruder in a conversation and came to know that the intruder wanted to kill him and take his identity.
He was a jewel thief and was chased by the police for murdering a cop.
When Gerrard knew the intention of the intruder, he made a false story to save himself and capture the intruder.
He told the intruder that he couldn’t kill him because he too was wanted by the police.
He made it sound real by telling him that he has to live in isolation as he too is being chased by the police.
At first, intruder didn’t believe Gerrard but the decorative items and materials for appearances forced him to trust his words.
Therefore, he decided to run away with Gerrard in his car.
Gerrard pushed him into the cupboard instead of going in the garage.
Then, he called his friend and asked him to send the cop at his home.
The narrator, who is a doctor, explains his experience with a snake.
It was a hot summer night when he used to live in a room in the village.
When he came to his room, it was about ten o’clock.
The doctor was sitting in a chair in his house at night and wondering how to look more handsome as he watched his face in a mirror.
He decided that he would shave daily, keep a thin moustache and always have a smile on his face.
These measures would make him look smarter and more handsome.
He heard a noise.
There were many rats in the room that constantly made noise.
Suddenly, a snake fell on doctor’s shoulder from above.
It may have come into the house due to the presence of many rats there.
The snake coiled round doctor’s left arm above the elbow.
The snake’s hood was only three to four inches away from the doctor’s face.
The doctor turned absolutely still in the face of danger so close by.
He prayed to God and then realised that he was a foolish and stupid doctor as he did not have any medicine for snakebite with him.
Thus, he would surely die if the snake bit him.
The duck praises the kangaroo for his hopping ability.
The duck says that the kangaroo has the ability to jump over fields and water bodies.
His life is happening as he can move and go anywhere.
The duck compares his life with the kangaroo.
He feels that his life has become boring by staying in an unpleasant pond.
He has a deep desire to go out and move around the world.
He tells the kangaroo that he wishes he could move like him.
The duck requested the kangaroo to take him on a world tour by making him sit on his back.
He further said that he would sit quietly and would say nothing.
He will only make a quack sound for the whole day.
He mentioned two places, i.e.
Dee and the Jelly Bo Lee, which he wanted to visit.
Adding on, he says that he would also like to visit seas and lands.
So, he requested him to take him on a ride.
After listening to the duck, the kangaroo replies that the idea sounds nice.
But he needs to think about it.
He boldly spoke to the duck and informed him that his feet would become wet and cold by travelling the long trip.
This would result in body pain.
The duck replied to him by saying that he thought about it when he was sitting on the rock.
He said he had found the solution to it and had bought four pairs of wool socks.
These socks would nicely fit into the web feet of a kangaroo.
He added that he would wear a blanket to protect himself from the cold and would smoke a cigar every day.
He will take care of his beloved kangaroo by protecting him from the cold.
After listening to the response of the duck, the kangaroo felt satisfied and replied that he was ready to take him on tour.
As night time arrived, the pale light of the moon covered the entire sky.
The duck quietly sat on the kangaroo’s tail at one end.
It helped the kangaroo to make a proper balance.
Finally, they started their journey with a hop, and the duck held the kangaroo’s tail tightly for his safety.
They moved around the world 3 times.
They were very happy to travel the whole world and enjoyed each other’s company.
The Bond of Love is a story written by Kenneth Anderson that revolves around the emotional bond of love shared between the author’s wife and her pet sloth bear.
The author had rescued the baby sloth bear while he was passing through the sugarcane fields near Mysore.
The little bear’s mother was shot dead by one of the author’s companions.
So, the author rescued the baby bear and took him to Bangalore and gifted him to his wife.
She was delighted seeing the little furry creature and tied a coloured ribbon around its neck right away and christened the little animal ‘Bruno’.
Soon, the author and his family nourished the baby bear like their own child and helped him grow along with their pet Alsatian dogs.
As Bruno was growing up, he started bonding with everyone, starting with the children and the pet dogs around.
He had a bed of his own, and he loved playing and running around the kitchen with other little ones all day long.
However, one day, he ate some poison accidentally that was meant to kill rats.
After consuming the poison, Bruno was suddenly paralysed and was rushed to the veterinary hospital for treatment.
Later, he recovered back to normal.
On another occasion, he drank almost a gallon of old engine oil that was meant to kill termites.
However, consuming it had no ill effects on him whatsoever.
As days passed, Bruno started growing in size, but he had a playful nature.
Later, the author’s wife changed his name to ‘Baba’, which meant small boy in Hindi.
Gradually, he learnt some tricks and began entertaining everyone around him.
Nonetheless, he was kept chained most of the time as the tenants’ children were afraid to come closer to him due to his growing size.
Thus, everyone except the author’s wife decided to take him to the zoo as he had become enormous and was not fit to be kept as a pet in the house.
Although initially, the author’s wife was reluctant, she finally gave in, considering everyone’s safety.
Soon, the formalities of the Mysore Zoo were completed, and he was moved there in a cage.
In due course of time, the author’s wife started missing her pet terribly.
Even Bruno used to fret often and skipped his meals in sadness.
The author’s wife was upset when she learnt that Baba wasn’t having food properly and remained sad all day.
So, after three months, she decided to pay a visit to the zoo to check on Baba.
Although everyone said that Bruno would not be able to recognize her when he saw her, he howled with happiness, and she petted him through the bars of the cage.
The author’s wife was so touched by meeting Bruno that she decided to take him back home.
Soon, they obtained the permission of the zoo superintendent and finally brought him back.
They made a special island for Baba with all his belongings in a six-foot-deep dry pit.
Finally, Baba was reunited with the author’s wife, and she would spend long hours pampering him by petting his back and lulling him to sleep on her lap.
They indeed shared a true and emotional bond of love between them.
Packing is an extract from the book “Three Men in a Boat” written by Jerome K. Jerome.
This book is a boating holiday account of three friends – Jerome, the author and his two friends – Harris and George.
Packing is particularly that section of the book where the author, along with his friends, are busy with the tedious work of packing just before they set off for their journey.
As Jerome, George and Harris are ready to set out on a boat journey, they begin packing their bags.
Jerome, the narrator, is the one who explains his experiences of packing.
He is pretty confident about his packing skills, as he mentions that he can handle loading his stuff into his bag on his own.
In reality, he simply wants to monitor his friends while they are engaged in the packing session and make them work under his supervision.
Nonetheless, they sit and relax and let him handle the packing process all by himself.
Although this irritates him, he still packs the bags diligently.
As Jerome continues with his packing session, his friends silently watch him do all the work.
Soon, Harris reminds him of the shoes, and Jerome reopens the bag to make some space for them.
Suddenly, Jerome is unsure if he has packed his toothbrush or not.
So, he again unpacks the luggage bag just to find the toothbrush inside one of his boots and repacks the bag again.
Soon after, George queries Jerome about the soap, but he gets irritated, ignores the comment and packs his bag regardless.
However, he reopens his bag as his spectacles were locked inside the bag.
Finally, he slams his bag shut and concludes his packing session at 10.05 p.m.
As the food hampers were left to be done, George and Harris started packing to show Jerome the art of packing by consuming less time.
However, even they are caught up in an awkward situation when they break a cup into pieces.
Further, Harris squashes the tomatoes while packing the strawberry jam, and George walks on the butter and ends up smashing the pies by packing them at the bottom of the hamper.
Besides, the salt is spread all over the things, and the hamper packing ends up in a messy state.
After much chaos, they finally try to put all the things together systematically.
To their dismay, their pet dog, Montmorency, creates a nuisance and worsens things.
He sits on those items which were meant to be packed and put his leg into the jam, and crushes the lemons like a rat.
Harris accuses Jerome of creating all the mess with the pet.
However, Jerome says that Montmorency was born with this natural instinct of cluttering things everywhere.
Finally, after much muddling, the packing ends at around 12:50 a.m. After a prolonged and tiring packing session, the friends decide to take some rest before they set out on their journey the next morning.
As they head to bed, George asks about what time he should wake his friends.
Harris says seven o’clock, while Jerome maintains six.
They split their difference and agree to wake up at 6.30 a.m. and finally go off to sleep.
The Happy Prince is a beautiful story written by Oscar Wilde.
It is the tale of a sculpture of the Happy Prince that was covered with gold leaves and precious gems.
The statue was placed at a height such that it overlooked the city from the top.
One fine day, a swallow bird took shelter under the sculpture as he was flying to Egypt.
He found out that the Happy Prince was not happy indeed; he was rather miserable.
So, the bird asked the Prince the reason for his unhappiness.
The Prince told him that when he was alive, he used to stay happy in his palace.
He stayed uninformed of his people during his lifetime.
When he died, his statue was erected on a tall column over the city.
He became sad when he started noticing the misery and suffering of the needy people in the city.
The Prince’s sculpture was covered with gold and many precious jewels.
His body was covered with gold leaves, his eyes had two splendid sapphires, and there was an enormous red ruby that was shining on his sword handle.
The sculpture of the Happy Prince looked marvellous, and everyone praised the beauty of the statue.
When the bird saw the Prince’s eyes filled with tears upon seeing the misery of the people, he decided to become the messenger of the Prince to make him happy again.
This made the Prince glad.
At first, the Prince asked the swallow to take the ruby from his sword and give it to the needy seamstress who had no money to take care of her ailing son.
The bird did as commanded.
The Prince asked the little bird to stay and help him as he could not move from that place.
On another occasion, the Prince asked the bird to take out one sapphire from his eye and offer it to the poor dramatist who could not afford to make a fire during winter to proceed with his composition.
The playwright was feeling very weak and hungry such that he could not finish his play to deliver it to the producer on time.
The bird followed the Prince’s instructions.
One day, the Prince noticed a match girl who was ruthlessly beaten by her father for allowing her matches to fall into the canal.
The Prince’s heart was filled with pain, and he promptly asked the swallow to pluck out his other eye and help the young lady.
However, the swallow was unwilling to do so as this would make the Prince totally visually impaired.
But the Prince insisted, and the swallow plucked it and dipped past the match girl and slipped the gem into the palm of her hand.
Thereafter, the compassionate bird chose not to leave the Prince, who was completely blind at this point.
Despite the fact that the Prince couldn’t see the distress or suffering of the people anymore, the bird stayed with the Prince.
Upon the instructions of the Prince, the swallow removed the fine gold leaves from his body and offered them to the poor people.
The bird obediently followed the Prince’s words and took out leaf after leaf of gold till the Happy Prince looked very dull and sombre.
Soon, winter came.
There was snow everywhere, and the bird became colder and colder.
Despite being weary and cold, he didn’t leave the Prince.
Eventually, he became frail and died from exhaustion.
Just then, there was a sudden curious crack that came from inside the sculpture as though something had broken.
It was, indeed, the leaden heart of the Prince that had snapped directly in two pieces at the sudden demise of the sweet and kind swallow.
The sculpture was, therefore, no longer valuable and beautiful.
It stood abandoned.
When the Mayor and the Town Councillors saw the dull statue of the Prince, they pulled it down.
Soon after, they melted the sculpture in a furnace, yet the broken heart didn’t melt.
Thus, it was rendered useless for them, so they discarded it where the dead swallow was lying.
Soon, God requested one of His Angels to bring the two most valuable things to the city.
The Angel brought the leaden heart of the Prince and the dead swallow.
God warmly welcomed the two beings in His garden of Paradise and regarded them as His charming creations.
Iswaran the Storyteller is an interesting story written by R. K. Narayan about Mahendra, a bachelor and junior supervisor in a firm who stays with his cook, Iswaran.
Mahendra had a transferable job, so he used to keep moving from one place to another very often, as per the orders of his head office.
However, Iswaran would always accompany him wherever he went.
He took great care of his master and shared interesting stories with him.
Iswaran would buy fresh vegetables and cook delicious meals for Mahendra.
While his master was away at work, Iswaran would clean up the house, wash utensils and take a bath leisurely.
He was very fond of reading popular Tamil thrillers during his free time.
As a result, he often invented his own thrillers and would tell those stories to Mahendra when he returned from work.
Mahendra enjoyed listening to his cook’s stories.
Once Iswaran told him a story of a wild elephant and how he controlled the menacing animal that had gone mad.
He told Mahendra that he was originally from a place that was famous for timber.
He had seen logs of wood carried by elephants.
These animals were fed a huge amount of food, but when they went wild, they could not be tamed even by the most experienced mahout.
One fine day, an elephant entered the school premises where children were playing and broke through the brick wall.
All the children and teachers were terrified of the wild tusker and rushed to a safe place to save themselves.
When the wild tusker saw Iswaran, it lifted its trunk and rushed towards him menacingly.
Mustering up all his force and courage, Iswaran quickly whacked its third toenail, and the elephant shivered head to foot and collapsed.
Mahendra was astounded at his cook’s courage after listening to his story.
On another occasion, Iswaran had prepared a special meal for dinner on an auspicious day.
He told Mahendra that he prepared several delicacies to feed the spirits of their ancestors.
Mahendra enjoyed the meal and complimented his cook on his culinary skills.
As usual, Iswaran began with his story-telling.
But this time, he talked about supernatural elements.
He said he was not afraid of ghosts as he was brave enough to deal with them.
Iswaran told his master that the place they stayed in was once a burial ground, and he had also seen ghosts around.
He particularly mentioned a gruesome ghost of a woman, which appeared on and off at midnight during a full moon night.
She moaned in a shrill tone and carried a foetus in her arms.
Hearing this, Mahendra was scared and shivered at the description and rebuked Iswaran stating that ghosts don’t exist.
Soon, he retired to bed but could not sleep as the discussion about the ghost woman was hovering in his mind.
From that day onwards, Mahendra would go to sleep feeling uneasy thinking about the female ghost.
One night as Mahendra was sleeping, he suddenly woke up from his sleep by a low moaning sound coming from his window.
Out of curiosity, he looked out of the window and saw the night sky was filled with moonlight outside and noticed a dark cloud-shaped structure that was clutching a bundle.
Seeing this, Mahendra started sweating profusely and fell on his pillow, gasping.
The next morning, Iswaran enquired his master about the female ghost and moaning sound that was coming from his room.
A chill ran down Mahendra’s spine, and he decided to leave the haunted place immediately and forever.
The Last Leaf is a short story written by O. Henry.
The story begins with Johnsy and Sue, two young artists and friends living together in a small flat.
Johnsy fell seriously ill in the month of November.
The doctor diagnosed that she was suffering from pneumonia.
Her friend, Sue, was really worried and tried to cheer her up so that she would recover soon, but Johnsy had given up hope of survival.
She had somehow made up her mind that she would never recover and would die soon.
Seeing her condition deteriorate, the doctor asked Sue to relieve Johnsy from all her worries; otherwise, her medicines wouldn’t respond to her illness.
Sue tried her best to cheer up Johnsy, but she took no interest in the surroundings.
She was non-responsive to any of Sue’s efforts.
One day, while Johnsy was lying on her bed, she noticed an ivy plant through the window that was gradually losing all its leaves.
Seeing the bare condition of the tree, Johnsy said that she would die the day the last leaf fell off the plant.
Although the ivy plant had nothing to do with her illness, Johnsy was too depressed to think positively about her own recovery.
Meanwhile, Sue continued convincing Johnsy that she would recover from her illness soon and that she should not pin her journey of survival on the last leaf of the ivy plant.
As days passed, Johnsy kept counting the remaining leaves of the plant every day.
Unable to bear the pain of her dear friend, Sue approached Behrman, an aged artist who lived downstairs and explained about Johnsy’s mental state.
She told him how her friend had pinned her survival on the last leaf of the ivy plant.
Soon, Behrman came to visit Johnsy but found her asleep.
Sue pulled the curtains off the window of her room, and they went to sit in the other room.
That day, it was raining heavily, and there was a storm as well.
Johnsy thought the leaves of the ivy plant would shed off soon.
She hesitantly peeped out of the window and saw only one leaf on the creeper, which might fall off the plant anytime.
However, Behrman said no word and returned to his room.
That night, the old artist decided to do something for Johnsy.
He painted a similar leaf of an ivy plant and tied it on the creeper while Johnsy was asleep.
Unfortunately, while doing so, he fell ill due to the exposure to freezing cold weather and heavy rainfall outside, and after two days, he died of pneumonia.
The following morning, Johnsy looked out of the window after the vicious storm the previous night and saw there was a last leaf that was still clinging to the ivy plant.
This gave her the hope to live.
She realised that she was foolish to pin her survival on the last leaf of a plant.
She understood that there must be a definite reason why the last leaf remained in the creeper, and it was sinful of her to want to die at such a young age.
Johnsy began to gradually recover from her illness.
Later, when Johnsy was completely fine, Sue informed her that Behrman had died of pneumonia.
She told her that he had contracted the disease while being out in the cold and wet weather and that he was the one who had painted the last leaf to give Johnsy hope of survival.
Finally, Behrman had successfully painted his masterpiece— the leaf that saved Johnsy’s life and gave her hope to live longer, and sacrificed his own life in the process.
A House Is Not a Home is based on the author, Zan Gaudioso’s life.
He mentions the challenges that he faced being a teenager when he switched schools and grew up in a completely new environment.
The narrator particularly discussed a real incident from his life that had a great impact on him as a teenager.
He joined a new school and found it difficult to adjust to the new environment.
He always felt lonely and isolated in his surroundings.
He missed his teachers and friends from his old school and visited them often.
His teachers told him to participate in extra-curricular activities in the new school to mingle with new people and make friends.
One Sunday afternoon, he was doing his high school homework while sitting at the dining table in his house.
It was a cold day, and his cat was lying on top of all his papers, occasionally purring, while his mother was stoking the fire in order to keep the house warm and cosy.
Out of nowhere, he suddenly noticed smoke coming in through the seams of the ceiling.
In no time, the entire room was filled with smoke, and they rushed out of the house and saw the roof engulfed in huge flames.
The narrator was panic-stricken and looked dazed as he ran to his neighbourhood to call the fire brigade.
Meanwhile, his mother rushed into the burning house to collect all the important documents and some pictures of his deceased father.
The author was terrified when he saw his mother risk her life in order to get her things from inside the house.
In the meantime, the fire brigade arrived and saved his mother and wrapped blankets around them.
Suddenly, the author recollected that his pet cat was missing and could not find her anywhere.
He became upset and cried heartily on not finding his cat and assumed that his pet might have died in the fire.
The author’s house was in debris.
It took the firefighters five hours to put out the fire completely.
So, Zan went to his grandparents’ house with his mother.
He went to school wearing the same clothes he wore the previous day and borrowed shoes, so he felt embarrassed.
He was upset and felt insecure about his ill condition.
For a moment, he felt a huge loss and missed his old school, teachers, friends, old house and his pet cat.
That day, after school hours, he visited his old house and was shocked to see the havoc done by the fire.
He saw that whatever hadn’t burned was damaged by the water and chemicals used by the firefighters to put out the fire.
He had lost everything except the documents, photo albums and some personal items that had been saved by his mother.
Most importantly, he was grieved at the loss of his pet cat because he could do nothing to save her.
Soon, the news of the fire spread to his new school, and everyone was grief-stricken at his loss.
They helped him by providing notebooks, clothes, school supplies, etc.
The author’s heart was touched after seeing the concern of the people of his new school and was overcome by emotion.
People who never spoke to him approached him and offered to help him.
Meanwhile, he also made new friends and was happy and relieved that he was no more alone in his new school.
A month later, Zan visited his old house and watched it being rebuilt along with his new friends.
Suddenly, a woman approached him and brought a cat along with her.
The author was overjoyed seeing his pet and was filled with gratitude for the lady for taking the trouble to find the rightful owner of the cat.
He held the woman’s arms and cried in happiness.
His friends also hugged him and his cat and jumped around merrily.
The author recollected that it was indeed a great day of his life.
He was grateful for everything – his life, his friends and the kindness of the lady who brought his cat to him.
Thus, he felt that all the overwhelming feelings of loss and tragedy slowly seemed to diminish.
The Accidental Tourist is an entertaining story written by Bill Bryson, where he reflects on his travel experiences humorously.
He casually describes the various incidents that took place while he was travelling to different places.
He often acts clumsily and finds it difficult to manage things systematically.
He wonders how other people do their regular work easily without any difficulty.
A couple of times, he fails to locate the washroom in the movie theatre and ends up standing in a narrow passage of the door that locks by itself.
He has a hard time living a normal life like other people and wonders how others do it so effortlessly.
Once, the author was travelling to England with his family during Easter.
After reaching Logan Airport in Boston, while they were checking in, he abruptly remembered that he had joined the British Airways’ frequent flyer programme.
He recollected that he had put the card in the carry-on bag that was dangling around his neck.
When he tried opening the bag, the zip was clogged, and he exerted pressure to open it.
In the process, the zip snapped, and everything that was kept inside the bag started spilling all over the place.
Meanwhile, the author also noticed that his finger was injured and trapped in the zip.
He was terrified at the sight that his finger was bleeding extensively.
Further, the author mentions the unexpected troubles that he encounters while travelling.
In one such instance, while travelling in an aeroplane, he leaned over to tie his shoelace.
Unfortunately, he was stuck when the person sitting ahead of him fully reclined his seat.
With great difficulty, he freed himself from that cramped position.
In another instance, he spilt some soft drinks on his co-passenger.
Although the flight attendant cleaned up the mess, the author spilt another drink on the same passenger again.
The lady was completely drenched and annoyed at the author for the inconvenience he caused her.
However, his worst experience on a flight was when he was writing in a notebook, and he sucked on the tip of the pen.
At that time, he was also talking to a lady.
Later when he went to the washroom, he saw that the pen had leaked unknowingly and ended up colouring his teeth, tongue and mouth in blue colour ink.
He ended up feeling awkward for being so clumsy.
Although the author is a gentleman, he always ends up in some cumbersome situation.
His wife was well aware of his clumsiness.
So, whenever food was delivered on the flight, she would instruct her children to remove the lid off the food for their father so that they could avoid any mishap from happening.
Nonetheless, the author clarifies that such unforeseen situations occur, particularly when he is travelling with his family.
Whenever he travels alone, things work perfectly as he quietly sits on his seat and avoids tying his shoelaces if required.
He avoids making mistakes while he is travelling on his own.
He admits that he has been careless in updating his frequent flyer card due to time constraints.
On multiple occasions, he either forgot to request the air miles from the airline authorities, or sometimes the airline didn’t record it on time.
Furthermore, he mentions that there were instances when the airline informed him that he was not entitled to use air miles.
Once due to a mismatch in his name on the ticket, he could not use his air miles and was left ineligible to travel to Bali on a first-class ticket.
Weathering the Storm in Ersama, written by Harsh Mander, is based on the real-life story of the dreadful cyclone that hit Orissa (now known as Odisha) on October 27th, 1999.
The story particularly mentions the praiseworthy adventures of a young man named Prashant, who was stranded on the roof of his friend’s house for two nights following the terrifying storm.
Prashant had gone to Ersama, a small town in coastal Orissa that was some eighteen kilometres from his village, to visit a friend.
The impact of the cyclone was so massive that it killed several people and devastated the houses of many villagers.
In such hard times, Prashant exhibited exceptional courage and faced the natural calamity with bravery.
He did not just save his life but also led the disaster management of the menacing storm in his village effectively.
The dreadful storm was followed by incessant and heavy rainfall, which washed away various houses and people.
There were flood waters everywhere, and corpses were floating on them.
Being away from home, Prashant took shelter in his friend’s house, stranded on the rooftop, where he spent two nights with his friend’s family.
It was freezing cold due to the incessant rain.
In the early morning, he could see the wreckage caused by the super cyclone.
Only the cemented houses stood still in a few places as there was water everywhere.
There were carcasses of animals and dead bodies of humans floating in every direction.
Prashant felt helpless and deeply worried about his family.
The rain stopped after two days, and the rain waters started receding.
Prashant decided to visit his village, Kalikuda and check on his family members and relatives.
Although initially, he couldn’t find any of his family members, he soon found his uncle’s friends.
So, he went to the Red Cross shelter to search for them and found his family later.
Prashant was distressed at the sight of the miserable condition of the people affected by the super cyclone who took shelter wherever they could.
They were starving and had only some green coconuts from the tree that was uprooted in the storm.
So, he decided to volunteer and help the survivors by arranging food for the people with the help of some elders and young people like him.
He began by organising a team of young volunteers to clear all the filth and floating carcasses and heal the wounds and fractures of the injured people.
On the fifth day of the natural calamity, a military helicopter dropped a few parcels of food.
However, it did not come any further.
Therefore, Prashant and his fellow volunteers decided to depute children on the ground with empty plates on their stomachs in order to grab the attention of the helicopter.
The plan worked, and thereafter, the helicopter started dropping basic needs and food parcels.
Prashant continued working dedicatedly and put up a polythene sheet shelter for the orphans.
He resettled the orphans in new foster families comprising childless widows.
He also persuaded women to work in a food-for-work program that was operated by an NGO and organised sports events for children.
Prashant was the saviour for several people who were adversely affected by the super cyclone.
Everyone looked up to him with gratitude for helping them.
His selfless service to mankind was indeed commendable.
The chapter, The Proposal, is a comedy-drama that is based on the tendency of two wealthy families who seek ties with each other to increase their estates by encouraging marriage that would improve their wealth.
The play began with Ivan Lomov, who visited Stephan Chubukov, a wealthy neighbour of Lomov.
Lomov was a wealthy person himself who was dressed neatly and had come to seek Chubukov’s twenty-five-year-old daughter, Natalya Stepanovna’s hand in marriage.
Initially, Chubukov was curious about Lomov’s sudden visit and assumed that the young man had come to ask for money which he might not return.
Lomov was a thirty-five-year-old gentleman who suffered from severe heart-throbbing and became upset easily.
He thought that Natalya was an excellent housekeeper, a well-educated and average-looking woman who would be an ideal partner to marry.
However, when Chubukov heard about the proposal, he was glad and embraced Lomov.
He immediately rushed inside to call his daughter, Natalya.
When Natalya arrived, Lomov began the conversation about how both families share a cordial relationship.
As he spoke about his land Oxen Meadows, which was a disputed property, Natalya objected that the land belonged to her family.
Lomov yelled back, stating that the land belonged to him.
Both of them had a heated argument on this topic until Lomov had a sudden palpitation attack with numbness in his feet.
In no time, Natalya’s father, Chubukov, arrived, and the father-daughter duo started abusing Lomov.
Feeling insulted, Lomov rushed out of the house.
As Chubukov continued to defame the young man, he accidentally mentioned Natalya about Lomov’s marriage proposal.
Hearing this, Natalya immediately regretted insulting Lomov and asked her father to bring him back.
Chubukov rushed out of the house immediately to call Lomov.
When the young man returned, Natalya started a conversation about their dogs.
In no time, a second round of debate ensued between her and Lomov, where she mentioned that her dog Squeezer was better than Lomov’s Guess.
Soon, Chubukov entered the scene, and the argument worsened.
All three people began quarrelling, and soon Lomov fainted with another attack of palpitation.
Seeing this, Natalya asked her father to wake up Lomov as she expressed her desire that she like him too.
Suddenly when Lomov made a movement, they offered him some water to drink, and Chubukov put Natalya’s hand over his hand.
They agreed to marry, but the quarrel persisted as Natalya said that Squeezer was better than Guess.
However, Lomov was adamant and refused to accept that his dog, Guess, was worse than Squeezer, Natalya’s dog.
The curtain went down as the verbal fight continued among the characters.
The story, Madam Rides the Bus, illustrates the sensitive story of a young eight-year-old Tamil girl Valliammai.
Valli was always curious to explore the outside world.
She had no friends to play games with.
So, her favourite pastime was to stand in the doorway of her house and watch all that was happening on the street outside.
She would watch people get on and off the bus that travelled between her village and the nearest town.
The bus that was filled with a new set of passengers filled her with a sense of unending joy.
She had a strong urge to take a bus ride to explore the adventurous bus journey.
Hence, she collected information about the bus timings by listening to the conversations of the people taking the bus ride.
Soon she learnt that the bus journey from her village to the nearest town was approximately six miles.
The bus fare costs thirty paise for a one-way ride.
So, Valli started saving enough money to take a ride on the bus.
Valli planned to travel on the bus during the afternoon when her mother would be asleep.
She stood on the roadside waiting for the bus.
As the bus arrived, she told the conductor she wanted to go to town.
The conductor happened to be a jovial person and referred to her as ‘madam’ and told her to hop into the bus and take her seat.
She got into her bus quickly and noticed that the bus was painted in green and white colour stripes and looked brand new.
The bus seats were luxurious, and the ride was comfortable.
During her journey, Valli enjoyed looking at the greenery outside and the scenic natural beauty of the bus.
She was thoroughly enjoying her bus ride and was amused when she saw a young cow that ran wildly in front of the bus and crossed the road.
The driver blew the shrill horn as the cow crossed the road.
This was a fascinating experience for Valli as she realised her dream of travelling on a bus had finally come true.
As Valli enjoyed watching the beautiful landscape outside, the bus started getting empty as the passengers got down to their respective stops.
Soon, the conductor asked her if she would like to roam about the stalls in the town, but she told him that she had limited money, which she needed to take the return bus ride.
The conductor casually smiled at her reply.
Valli stayed on the bus and took a ticket from the conductor to return to her village.
As the bus started again, she noticed a dead cow and realised that it was the same cow that had run wildly in front of her bus during her onward journey to the town.
Looking at the sight of the bleeding cow made her very sad, and she understood the meaning of life and death from this incident.
Soon, the bus dropped her at the bus stop near her home, and she returned home just on time.
Thus, no one in her family knew about her adventurous bus trip that she had taken all by herself without their knowledge.
The Sermon at Benares illustrates the valuable preachings of Lord Buddha.
Lord Buddha was born as a prince named Siddhārtha Gautama in North India.
When he was twelve years old, he was sent away from home to study the sacred Hindu scriptures.
He returned four years later and married a beautiful princess.
They had a healthy son and led a life of royalty for ten years.
Being a part of the royal family, he was protected from the sufferings and unpleasant happenings around the world.
One fine day while he went out hunting, the Prince met an ailing man, an old man, a funeral procession and a monk begging for alms.
He was moved by the encounters, and soon he left royalty behind to seek enlightenment for all the sorrows that he witnessed.
After seven years, he attained Salvation and sat under a tree and renamed it the ‘Bodhi Tree’ (Tree of Wisdom) and began preaching and sharing his new understandings.
Soon, he came to be known as the Buddha (the Awakened or the Enlightened).
He gave his first sermon in Benares, the holy city on the banks of the river Ganges.
In one of his sermons, he taught about a lady, Kisa Gotami, whose only son had died.
She was devastated and in extreme grief for the sudden loss.
She went from one house to another, seeking help and medicine to bring her son back to life.
People thought that she had lost her mind owing to her grief.
One day, she met a man who directed her to approach Lord Buddha for guidance.
He felt that Lord Buddha could possibly help her in this crisis.
The lady approached the monk as directed and begged him to cure her son.
Lord Buddha asked her to procure mustard seeds from a house where the family had never lost a family member, relative or friend.
Kisa Gotami was filled with a ray of hope and immediately went in search of it from one house to another, but she could find none.
She felt disheartened and finally realised how selfish she had been in desperately searching for something that was not possible to achieve.
Thus, she understood that man is a mortal being; all who come to Earth have to leave behind all their relations and belongings when they die.
This was the lesson that Lord Buddha taught her and wanted her to understand, that life and death are the cycles of the universe and no one can escape it.
Lord Buddha taught a valuable lesson to all that feelings of sorrow and grief only escalate man’s suffering and pain.
It deteriorates one’s health and worsens the current situation.
Therefore, a wise person is one who is completely aware of how Mother Nature functions and must not lose hope or remain in constant grief for something that is bound to happen.
It is only then one can enjoy life and stay happy and blessed in life.
The Hundred Dresses Part 1 is a story written by Eleanor Estes that revolves around a Polish girl Wanda Petronski and her arrogant classmates, primarily Peggy and Madeline, who would always tease her for her appearance and attire.
Wanda was a gentle girl who had immigrated to America with her family.
Her parents enrolled her in a school that mainly consisted of American students.
Her classmates would often make fun of her name as it was quite different from others and treated her with contempt.
Being poor, Wanda wore a faded blue dress to school and always remained quiet and rarely said anything when she was teased by her classmates.
She had no friends and would always remain lonely in school.
She came from Boggins Heights, and her feet were usually smothered with dry mud, so she sat in one corner of the classroom.
Peggy and Maddie would often ridicule her appearance and dressing sense.
Tired of all the taunting remarks, she once claimed to have a hundred dresses and sixty shoes in her closet at her home.
Peggy and Maddie grew more inquisitive about her claim and wondered why she wore the same dress to school if she had so many dresses in her wardrobe.
As time passed, Peggy and Maddie wouldn’t miss an opportunity to tease Wanda and always waited for her before school so that they could make fun of her.
Nonetheless, Wanda hardly paid heed to their teasing remarks.
Maddie was a poor girl herself, and she didn’t approve of Peggy’s teasing Wanda at all times.
However, she was terrified that she could become the next target if she objected.
She was afraid that she might also lose her best friend, Peggy, if she complained.
Although Peggy’s purpose was not always to hurt Wanda unnecessarily, she was more eager to know why Wanda was lying about having a hundred dresses and sixty pairs of shoes in her closet when asked.
Meanwhile, a drawing and colouring contest was held in the school in which all the students had participated, and Maddie was confident that Peggy would win the competition among girls.
A few days passed, and Wanda didn’t turn up for school.
But nobody noticed her absence as she had no friends in her class.
Soon the result of the competition was declared, and Wanda Petronski won the competition in which she drew beautiful sketches of a hundred dresses.
Peggy, Maddie and all the other students were awestruck by Wanda’s creative work.
Finally, the truth came out about the hundred dresses that Wanda often claimed to have in her closet.
Peggy and Maddie felt guilty for teasing and underestimating Wanda’s talent and treating her badly.
They realised that Wanda was a talented girl who drew such lovely sketches and was the most deserving winner of the drawing competition.
The Hundred Dresses Part 2 is the second instalment of the story written by Eleanor Estes.
The lesson begins with a letter sent by Wanda’s father to her school.
In the letter, he informed the school authorities about their decision to re-settling in a big city.
He also mentioned that nobody would tease Wanda for her unique name or appearance in the new city.
After reading the letter, the teacher, Miss Mason, was shocked when she realised that Wanda was teased with derogatory comments by her classmates.
Maddie felt guilty for being a coward as she never stopped Peggy from taunting Wanda.
She was so upset that she couldn’t focus on her studies and often had nightmares of mistreating the poor girl.
Thus, she decided to meet Wanda and clarify all the misunderstandings and tell her that she never intended to hurt her feelings.
She was determined to go to Wanda’s place and inform her about winning the drawing competition.
Soon after the school was over, Maddie and Peggy decided to set off to Wanda’s residence at Boggins Heights to meet her.
To their dismay, Wanda and her family had already vacated the house, and their visit was rendered fruitless.
Hence, both the girls wrote a friendly letter addressed to Wanda informing them about her win.
Many days passed; however, there was no reply from her to their letter.
Soon, it was Christmas time, and Miss Mason received a letter from Wanda.
In it, Wanda sent Christmas greetings to all and mentioned the beautiful hundred dresses sketches that she drew for the colouring contest.
She stated that the girls could keep those sketches of hundred dresses, and she gifted special drawings to Peggy and Maddie.
They accepted the gifts and pinned them in their respective bedrooms.
Maddie would often gaze at the picture for a long time and notice that the face in the drawing resembled her own face.
She rushed to Peggy’s house immediately to check if her drawing too looked like Peggy’s.
Seeing this, Peggy felt sorry for teasing a talented girl like Wanda.
She wondered that though she had passed derogatory remarks about her name and appearance, Wanda always remained quiet and never complained about it.
Maddie wiped her tears and often thought of Wanda standing alone in that sunny spot in the schoolyard, rightfully claiming about her hundred dresses all lined up in her closet.
Finally, they realised racial discrimination ruins personal lives and relationships.
The poem explains the situation of a tiger in the zoo.
The poet narrates a tiger’s erstwhile life in the jungle when he was a free animal and now when he is caged in the zoo.
The poem begins by describing the physical features of the tiger, which is kept in a little cage.
The poet then goes on to describe how a tiger’s life would have been if he was in the jungle.
In the end, the poet once again explains the situation of the tiger in the cage.
The poet says that cage life has changed the personality of the tiger.
He further elaborates that the tiger was a powerful and brave animal in the jungle, and villagers were terrified by his power.
However, now the tiger has been confined in the cage and has turned into a helpless and powerless animal.
In the opening stanza, the poet describes the appearance of the tiger in the zoo.
He says that the stripes on the tiger’s body are visible from a far distance.
These stripes are darker in colour than the rest of his body structure.
The tiger moves in the cage but can walk only a few steps as the cage is small.
He walks quietly due to its smooth velvet pads.
The tiger is full of anger, but he suppresses it due to his helplessness.
In the second stanza, the poet imagines the life of the tiger in the jungle.
He describes the other side of the tiger when he is a free animal.
The poet says that, in the natural habitat, i.e., the dark forest, the tiger would have been lying in the shadow of the tree or hiding in the long grass to prevent other animals from noticing his movement.
In this way, he would reach the water hole where all the animals of the forest come to drink water.
When a deer would pass through the water hole, he would attack him and have him as a meal for the day.
In the third stanza, the poet says that the tiger would be growling at the edge of the jungle near the village.
The tiger would show his white long sharp teeth and long carved nails while moving here and there to scare the villagers.
Here, the poet wants to convey that if we destroy the forests, then tigers will forcefully come out to towns and villages for their food.
Thus, they will become the cause of terror for humans.
In the fourth stanza, the poet stops imagining the tiger’s forest life and returns to the real condition.
The poet says that the tiger is locked in a strong cell, which is made up of sturdy material.
He has all the strength and power, but he is still behind bars.
The tiger moves slowly and quietly in his cage and pays no attention to people who are coming to see him.
In the last stanza, the poet says that the tiger does not sleep at night.
He hears the sound of the patrolling car.
The noise of the patrolling car disturbs the tiger and does not allow him to sleep.
He keeps staring at the stars with his brilliant eyes.
He gets lost in his thoughts and wonders why he has been imprisoned in the cage.
The poet says that he is desirous of living with animals as they are calm and self-contained.
He appreciates the numerous qualities of animals.
The self-contained nature of animals explains that they are happy in their own lives and do not interfere in others’ lives.
They are satisfied with what they have and do not have the greed to earn more than others.
Moreover, animals’ calm nature shows that they do not run after materialistic things like humans.
They are at peace in all situations.
The ups and downs in their life do not bother them.
They know how to deal with such situations.
In the second stanza, the poet says that animals do not complain about their life.
Whatever the conditions are, they never sweat and cry.
Neither do they stay awake till late at night, nor do they cry for their wrongdoings.
They are very truthful and do their duties toward God.
They are not like humans who do things just to showcase their duties in the name of God.
Animals are satisfied with themselves.
They do not behave crazily and madly to own things.
They are free from their desires and longings.
In the third stanza, the poet says that animals do not bend down on their knees in front of others.
He has never seen any animals doing so to show their devotion to others.
They have not done this for their ancestors who lived thousands of years ago.
Further, the poet says that animals do not show respect to others the way humans do.
They are not double-faced, showing themselves well in front of others and having evil thoughts running in their minds.
They never feel unhappy and live their life with joy on Earth.
Here, the poet conveys that one animal eats another animal as food, but they never hide this.
They exhibit their behaviour in front of others as they are.
There are no hidden or fake things among animals like humans.
That’s why the poet accepts them the way they are.
He further says that animals bring happiness to his life and make him feel the way he is.
Animals do not hide anything and show their possessions.
In the end, the poet says that he wonders where animals got these good qualities from.
He further asks himself, did he lose his good qualities, or has he left them somewhere carelessly a long time back?
He feels that humans lost their good qualities and passed them on to the animals.
The Hack Driver was written by Sinclair Lewis, who was the first American novelist to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1930.
This delightful tale is about a naive lawyer who started working as a junior assistant clerk in a famous law firm in the city post his graduation.
He hated the job of serving summons as he had to confront unpleasant situations.
One fine day, he had to visit a village, New Mullion, to serve a summons to Oliver Lutkins, who was a prime witness in some law case.
Although he was happy to visit the village, he lost interest when he saw that it was a dull and lifeless place.
Soon enough, he noticed a cheerful hack driver at the railway station who appeared to be friendly.
He quickly inquired about Lutkins and learnt from the driver that Lutkins was a notorious man who had borrowed funds from many people.
The hack driver introduced himself as Bill Magnuson and deftly extracted the information from the lawyer on the exact purpose of his visit.
To this, the ignorant lawyer replied that he visited New Mullion to offer court summons to Lutkins for a law case.
The lawyer found Bill to be a helpful man and decided to rent his hack to go in search of Lutkins.
They visited several places, and Bill offered to help the lawyer as they roamed around the village to locate Lutkins.
At first, they went to Fritz’s shop as that was the common place where Lutkins could be mostly found playing poker.
When they reached there, the owner said that Lutkins must have gone to Gustaff, the barber, for shaving.
Subsequently, at Gustaff’s place, too, he was not found either, and someone guided them to look out for him in the pool room.
However, when they reached there, they missed him only by five minutes as Lutkins just bought a pack of cigarettes and left.
Soon, it was lunchtime and as the lawyer was hungry, Bill offered to buy lunch from his wife to avoid the greasy food of the restaurant.
Both of them had lunch at Wade’s Hill, and Bill talked all about New Mullion, and they enjoyed the beautiful view while enjoying their food.
The lawyer was already convinced that Bill was a noble and supportive man.
He even compared the people of the village with the ones living in the city.
Later, they visited Lutkins mother’s house, but they found her to be a dreadful lady who started chasing them with a hot iron.
Soon, it was time for the lawyer to catch the return train to the city.
He was grateful to Bill for his helpful nature.
Thereafter, Bill dropped him at the railway station, and the lawyer paid him the dues for booking the ride.
When the lawyer visited his office, he was scolded by his Chief and ordered to visit New Mullion the following day with a colleague who knew Lutkins.
When they reached the station, the lawyer saw Bill and acknowledged him for his cooperative nature, who tried to help him in looking out for Lutkins.
Hearing this, the colleague replied in surprise that the hack driver was Oliver Lutkins himself.
The lawyer was ashamed that he was fooled by Lutkins as he served the summons to him.
Lutkins and his mother laughed at the lawyer’s foolishness and invited him for coffee at a neighbour’s place, which he had missed visiting the previous day.
The Book That Saved the Earth is a play written by Claire Bioko.
In the twenty-fifth century, while sitting in The Museum of Ancient History, the Historian depicts the story of the Martians who visited Earth in the twentieth century to invade the planet.
The play is set in the twentieth century, which was often called the Era of the Book.
The play consists of imaginary characters having strange names, such as Mighty Chief Think-Tank, Apprentice Noodle, Captain Omega, Lieutenant Iota and Sergeant Oop.
Think-Tank considers himself the most powerful and intelligent fellow among all the Martians and decides to visit Earth with his team.
He always thinks that since he has a big balloon head, he is the most intelligent of all and constantly wants to be praised for it.
He and his team are eager to know how the Earthlings (people living on Earth) live and how the Martians can put that planet under the generous Martian rulership.
Soon, they arrived at the Centerville Public Library on Earth, which was full of books.
However, they are unable to understand the purpose of those objects kept on the shelves.
To exhibit his acumen, the mighty Think-Tank tells his crew that Earthlings are fond of eating, so probably those things arranged on shelves are sandwiches.
Soon after, he orders Captain Omega, Lieutenant Iota and Sergeant Oop to eat the book.
Captain Omega and Lieutenant Iota cleverly transfer this responsibility of eating the book on Sergeant Oop’s shoulders.
Having no choice, Sergeant Oop eats a corner of the book, but he does not like the taste.
He confirms to the mighty Think-Tank that it is not delicious at all.
From this, the crew realises that the book is not meant for eating.
After some time, Apprentice Noodle suggests to the mighty Think-Tank that probably the book is being used for communication with ears.
They all tried to hear the book by holding it close to their ears, yet there was no sound coming from it.
Later, Noodle suggests Think-Tank that the book may be used for communication with eyes.
The mighty Think-Tank agrees and orders the entire crew members to open and read the book.
The name of the book is Mother Goose, which is a children’s rhyme book.
However, they are unable to understand how to read it.
In no time, Apprentice Noodle reminds Think-Tank that the Mars chemical department has given some vitamin pills to boost the intelligence of the crew.
Think-Tank immediately orders his crew to have those pills.
The crew pop in the capsules before reading the book.
Soon, Sergeant Oop starts reading the nursery rhyme book, and they start taking the literal meaning of lines in the rhymes.
He reads the rhyme, Humpty Dumpty, and all of them see the picture of Humpty that resembles Think-Tank.
Seeing this, Think-Tank is horrified to know that Earthlings have identified him already and want to kill him.
From all the information gathered about Earthlings, the mighty Think-Tank calls his Martian crew and says they should postpone the idea of invading Earth for the time being.
So, he asks his crew to run away from that place immediately without leaving a trace and evacuate the entire planet of Mars.
He orders his team to head towards Alpha Centauri, a hundred million miles away.
Thus, an old book of rhymes, Mother Goose, saved Earth from the Martian invasion.
Bholi was written by Khwaja Ahmad Abbas (K.A.
Abbas), who was a popular Indian film director, journalist and novelist known for his works in Hindi, Urdu and other languages.
This story is about a young girl named Sulekha, who was popularly referred to as ‘Bholi’ for her simple nature.
At ten months, she fell from her cot, which caused some severe damage to her brain, and she used to stammer when she learnt to talk.
Bholi was born a pretty child, but she suffered from smallpox that left dark pock-marks on her face permanently.
The ugly marks spoiled her appearance, and people would often make fun of her due to her dullness.
They would also consider her to be retarded as she stammered while speaking.
Bholi’s father, Ramlal had around seven children, out of which three were sons, and four were daughters.
Among all daughters, Bholi was the youngest.
All her siblings were hale and hearty except young Bholi.
Her parents were worried about her and how to get her married when she grew older.
One fine day, Tehsildar Sahib had come to perform an inaugural ceremony at a primary school for girls in the village.
He told Ramlal to send all his daughters to school.
When Ramlal discussed this with his wife, she objected and stated that nobody would marry their daughters if they were sent to school.
Yet, she agreed to send Bholi to school as they were not sure if she would ever get married for her appearance or feeble-mindedness.
Initially, Bholi was sceptical about going to school as she had never heard about it.
However, on the first day of school, she was groomed properly and sent to school; she assumed that it was a better place than her own home.
When she reached school, she was elated to see girls of her age around.
She wanted to make friends but dared not to open her mouth due to stammering.
However, when the class teacher smilingly asked her name, she stammered in front of the entire class, and all the girls started laughing at her.
This discouraged her completely.
She started weeping and understood that nobody would like to be friends with her.
Soon her teacher, a kind-hearted lady, encouraged her to tell her name again.
She stammered yet again but was finally able to tell her full name.
Her teacher gave her a few good books with pictures and asked her to read those as it would help her to overcome her stammering habit.
She also told Bholi to come to school regularly.
This gave the young girl a new ray of hope and assurance of a new life.
Many years passed, and the village soon became a small town and saw many improvements around it.
Soon, there was a marriage proposal for Bholi.
The prospective bridegroom, Bishamber Nath, was a limping old man with grown-up children.
He was almost Bholi’s father’s age.
However, Ramlal’s family agreed to the alliance as they felt he was a well-settled fellow.
Bholi’s elder sisters were, however, envious of the great pomp and show at their younger sister’s wedding.
However, when the groom, Bishamber, was about to put the garland around the bride’s neck, a woman slowly slipped the veil from Bholi’s face.
The groom was surprised to see the pockmarks on her face and refused to marry her without a dowry of five thousand rupees.
Bholi’s father, Ramlal, somehow arranged the amount and gave it to Bishamber Nath.
However, as the groom tried to garland the bride, Bholi held his hand and refused to marry such a voracious person.
All the people present in the wedding were stunned to see how confidently she spoke without stuttering.
The groom felt insulted and returned to his village.
Later, Bholi assured her father that she would take care of him and her mother in their old age and would become a teacher in the same school where she learnt so many new and good things.
Looking at this, Bholi’s teacher, who was watching from a distance, felt a deep sense of relief and satisfaction at Bholi’s courage and confidence that she exhibited in front of so many people.
The poet is describing the arrival of fog.
He says that the fog comes like little cat feet.
Here, the fog has been compared with a little cat.
As a cat walks silently on its small feet, and no one can know about its arrival, in a similar way, the fog also sets in.
The fog enters the city very slowly and calmly in such a way that no one can predict its arrival.
Then the poet says the thick cloud of fog covers the entire city in a similar way as the cat sits silently by folding her legs behind itself.
The fog engulfs the harbour and the whole city silently and looks around the places the way a cat does.
After some time, the fog leaves the city and moves on.
Here, the poet wants to convey that the fog does not stay for a longer time duration in a particular place.
It disappears after some interval, just like a cat, without being noticed by anyone.
The poem is about a little girl, Amanda, who is constantly pointed out by her mother for making mistakes.
Robin Klein has beautifully expressed the girl’s feelings in the poem about how she is controlled and instructed by her mother for small things.
The poem conveys an important message that children should never be deprived of their freedom.
They should not feel that their parents constantly nag them for every single thing they do.
It’s the responsibility of the parents to bring up their children in such a way that they understand their viewpoint instead of getting frustrated.
Children should not feel that an orphan has more freedom than them.
The poet describes Amanda, who is continuously instructed by her mother about dos and don’ts.
In the first stanza, the poet says Amanda’s mother is pointing out her mistakes and asking her not to bite her nails.
Then she tells her not to bend her back and shoulders.
She scolds her for walking in a lazy way with her head and shoulders hanging down and directs her to sit straight.
By listening to all this, Amanda starts getting frustrated by her mother and starts imagining herself to be in a deep green sea.
She imagines how blissful her life would be if she were a sea god having a fishtail instead of legs.
Then, she would have enjoyed the sea waves and moved along with the waves up and down in the water.
In the second stanza, Amanda’s mother is inquiring whether she has completed her homework or not.
Then she asks her whether she has cleaned her room or not.
She is also reminding her to clean her shoes.
At this moment, Amanda visualises her life as an orphan.
She thinks that being an orphan, she can freely roam in the street.
She has the freedom to peacefully draw designs on the soft dust with her uncovered feet.
There is no one to say anything to an orphan, so she can have a silent, peaceful life full of freedom.
Here, the poet says that she gets so irritated with her mother that she thinks the opposite.
Her mother was advising her to clean her shoes so that she could live a hygienic and healthy life.
But Amanda took it in another way that her mother is snatching her freedom.
That’s why she starts imagining that the life of an orphan is better than hers.
In the third stanza, you will see Amanda’s mother is not allowing her to eat chocolates.
Whenever she eats chocolates, she gets pimples on her face.
Her mother then tells her to listen to her when she is speaking.
She wants Amanda to pay attention to her words and follow them.
After listening to her mother’s words, Amanda imagines herself to be Rapunzel, a character in a fairy tale.
Rapunzel was captured in a tower by a witch.
The witch used to climb the tower with the help of Rapunzel’s long hair.
So, Amanda wants to live Rapunzel’s life as she feels that she can live a calm and quiet life in a pleasant environment.
But, she will never let her hair down to anyone so that no one can enter the tower.
In the last stanza, Amanda’s mother warns her to stop behaving in an odd manner.
She says that she has become moody and is always in a bad mood.
If anyone notices this, then they will feel that her mother is harassing her.
The poet wants to convey that Amanda can’t even react to what she feels about her mother.
If she does so, her mother will take it against her sense of pride and scold her to behave properly as other children do.
Here, Amanda’s mother nature is shown to be very dominating.
A Question of Trust is written by Victor Canning.
This story is about a thief, Horace Danby, who was a good citizen.
He was an unmarried fifty-year-old man who used to work as a locksmith.
He was a successful businessman too, and had two helpers to assist him.
Although he was a respectable man, he was not completely honest.
He had a liking for rare and fancy books and would purchase them by any means.
To pursue his expensive hobby, he would rob a safe once every year and purchase the expensive books covertly through an agent.
He would chalk out a well-devised plan before making any burglary attempt.
This time he had his eyes on a house at Shotover Grange, and he carefully studied its rooms, electric wiring, its paths and garden for two weeks.
The family in that house was in London.
One fine afternoon, the two caretakers of the house had gone to watch a movie.
Horace realised this was the best time to execute his act.
He came out from behind a wall of the garden and entered the house with all his tools packed in his bag.
He had picked a key from the hook on the kitchen door.
He quickly wore his gloves to avoid leaving fingerprints behind.
He took the key from the hook and opened the door.
He saw the dog, Sherry, that wagged its tail when it saw Horace.
Danby knew the safe was hidden behind a poor painting in the drawing room.
There was a beautiful vase full of flowers kept on the table.
He was allergic to the fragrance of flowers.
He tickled his nose and kept sneezing repeatedly.
He took out his tools and cut the burglar alarm.
As he sneezed again loudly due to the fragrance of the flowers, he heard the voice of a young lady standing in the doorway behind him.
The lady was dressed in red and pretended to be the house owner’s wife, and she managed to convince Horace to believe her.
She said that she had come there without notice to collect her jewels as she wanted to wear those at a party that night.
Danby was frightened that the lady might hand him over to the police, so he requested her to let him go.
She told him that she would allow him to leave only if he opened the safe for her as she left all the jewels in it.
She mentioned that she had forgotten the safe’s number combination and didn’t know how to unlock it.
Danby offered to help her and opened the safe without his gloves on.
The young lady immediately took out all the jewels.
Horace Danby left the house and went home happily, assuming that he had escaped imprisonment.
For the first two days, he kept his promise to the young lady.
However, a policeman arrested him on the third day for the burglary of jewels at Shotover Grange.
Horace Danby’s fingerprints were found all over the robbed place.
Later, he confessed to committing the crime and that he had opened the safe for the young lady in the house but didn’t steal the jewels inside.
In reality, it so happened that the lady was also a thief, and she convinced Horace to break open the safe for her.
When he told this story to the police, no one believed him since the owner’s wife was a sixty-year-old woman, not the one Danby mentioned in his statement.
In no time, the police arrested him, and he was put behind bars for the robbery case.
He became the assistant librarian in the prison.
He often thought of the charming, cunning young lady who was also a thief like him and tricked him into believing her.
Henceforth, whenever anyone mentioned ‘honour among thieves’, he would get very angry and upset.
Footprints without Feet is an interesting story written by Herbert George Wells.
This story is about a brilliant scientist named Griffin who had developed a drug that could make a man invisible.
He was successful in his experiment and developed a formula that had the power of invisibility.
By consuming the drug, a man could become transparent that could not be seen with the naked eye.
Griffin carried out the experiment on himself, so he gulped the drug, and his body became transparent like a sheet of glass.
Inadvertently, he stepped in mud, and the fresh muddy imprints of his feet were all over the place.
It was first seen by two young boys who followed his footprints until they became fainter and disappeared altogether.
Although Griffin was an outstanding scientist, he was a lawless man.
His landlord disliked him and asked him to eject the house.
In vengeance, Griffin set the house on fire and soon wandered around the streets without food, money and clothes.
Owing to his invisibility, no one could see him, and as he was walking down the streets, he started feeling cold and entered a big London shopping centre to warm himself.
After the stores were shut down, he picked up some comfortable clothes to warm himself and fed himself with cold meat and some espresso from a nearby restaurant.
Later he slept on a pile of quilts in the store.
The following morning some associates started approaching him, and he removed all his clothes immediately and became invisible again.
As Griffin wandered without clothes in the chilly weather, he could feel the biting cold and decided to take some clothes from a theatre company.
Soon, he found an appropriate shop and wore bandages around his forehead, a false nose, dark glasses, big bushy side-whiskers and a huge hat.
Then, he went to a shopkeeper’s store and stole all his money.
He realised that staying in a crowded city like London could be difficult for him, so he thought of moving to the Iping village.
He had booked two rooms at the local inn in the village and reached there by boarding a train from London.
It was quite an unusual experience for the villagers to expect an outsider with a strange appearance who had come to stay at the hotel during winter.
Mrs Hall, the wife of the landlord of the inn, tried to be friendly with him, but Griffin did not want to talk to her.
Soon enough, his money was exhausted, and he started stealing to sustain himself.
Due to his suspicious appearance, the inn owner and his wife attempted to check his room while he was away.
Out of anger, Griffin damaged the furniture of the inn and threw it across the room towards them.
The owner and his wife got scared, thinking that there were spirits around and their unusual guest was responsible for all the chaos.
Meanwhile, Mrs Hall requested the town constable, Mr Jaffers, to inquire about the identity of this particular individual and arrest him for damaging her furnishings.
This annoyed Griffin further, and he decided to reveal his identity as he started unwrapping his bandages, whiskers, spectacles and nose.
Everyone was shocked to see this, as there was no normal human being hidden behind the bandages.
The constable could not catch hold of Griffin as he took off all his garments, became invisible and disappeared in thin air.
The Making of a Scientist was written by Robert W. Peterson.
This prose is about a renowned scientist, Richard Ebright, who was a bright yet curious child from the early years of his life.
He was very fond of collecting butterflies, and when he was in the second grade, he had already collected 25 species of butterflies in his home town.
His mother always encouraged him in his efforts and gifted him a book named ‘The Travels of Monarch X’.
The book was a turning point in his life as it opened the world of science to him.
It explained how monarch butterflies would migrate to Central America and made him more eager to explore the species.
Soon, he participated in the county science fair and understood that he needed to do something exceptional.
He continued with his efforts until he made a place for himself in the fair with valid experiments.
Later, in his eighth-grade project, he tried to discover the disease caused by a virus that nearly killed most of the monarch caterpillars every year.
Ebright assumed that a beetle might be the carrier of the disease, so he started breeding caterpillars along with beetles.
However, he didn’t get any results from this experiment.
Nevertheless, he exhibited this experiment at the county science fair and won the competition that year.
During his second year of high school, Ebright started his scientific research about the discovery of a mysterious insect hormone, which led to his brand-new theory on the life of cells.
His experiment was to find the main purpose of the twelve tiny golden spots on a monarch pupa.
His project won first prize in a county science fair, and he got an opportunity to work at the entomology lab at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research.
As a junior in high school, he went on with his upgraded experiments on the monarch pupa and finally was successful in identifying the chemical structure of hormones.
One fine day, while he was checking the X-ray photos of the chemical structure of a hormone, he understood how the cell could ‘read’ the blueprint of its DNA.
Ebright and his roommate in college, James R. Wong, worked day and night and drew pictures and constructed plastic models of molecules to illustrate how DNA works.
This was a major leap in Ebright’s career as he secured a graduation degree from Harvard with the highest honours and stood second in a class of 1,510 students.
His work was also published in a science magazine.
Soon, he became a graduate student researcher at Harvard Medical School and started working on other experiments.
Richard Ebright was a straight-A student in high school.
Besides, he took an interest in debate, public speaking and was also a good canoeist and an all-rounder outdoor person.
He always had a competitive nature and zeal to give his best in everything that he put his hands into.
Out and out, he had all the key ingredients of a brilliant scientist, starting with a first-rate mind blended with curiosity and a mix of willpower to win for the right reasons.
The Summit Within describes the narrator, Major H.P.S.
Ahluwalia’s experiences and feelings of climbing the mighty Mount Everest and standing at its peak.
He was a member of the first successful Indian expedition to Mount Everest in the year 1965.
Although he was exhausted when he reached the peak of Everest, he also expressed his joy and felt humbled for being able to scale the highest peak in the world successfully.
This chapter is a reminiscence of an expedition of Major Ahluwalia in which he experienced a variety of emotions such as happiness, joy and sadness.
He was also thankful to God for his achievement.
Meanwhile, he realised that scaling one’s inner summit was also important and higher than climbing a mountain.
Major Ahluwalia was of the opinion that in spite of climbing the highest mountain in the world, it is extremely important to also climb the summit inside the mind.
He observed that a person should possess three qualities to climb a summit, namely, endurance, persistence and willpower.
These qualities help a person to overcome the hurdles in his life.
It is imperative for a person to possess these qualities so that he can enjoy his life and overcome whatever obstacles that come his way resolutely.
On being asked why Major Ahluwalia chose to climb Mount Everest, he stated that he loves the mountains.
Being the highest and mightiest of all mountains in the world, it is a challenging task for every climber to scale it without interruption.
He further elaborated that he always had a strong urge to face challenges and overcome obstacles.
Besides, the joy of climbing Mount Everest is overwhelming as only a few people are capable of completing the expedition successfully.
Most importantly, he mentioned that climbing the mighty Mount Everest was not just a physical achievement but it was also an emotional and spiritual experience for him.
The successful attempt to scale the mountain brought fame and a sense of fulfilment in him.
Additionally, Major Ahluwalia also said that climbing the summit taught him a lesson in companionship.
In the process of climbing the mountain, two or more people bond with each other as they share the same rope and other materials.
While one person climbs the mountain, the other climber holds the rope firmly, and another climber cuts the hard ice to make the way ahead.
Major Ahluwalia’s sole intention was to convey the message that it is a difficult task for a single person to scale the mountain all by himself.
Along with physical help, a climber needs emotional support from their partners too.
Furthermore, Major Ahluwalia stated that when he reached the peak of Mount Everest, all the climbers felt humbled and thanked and bowed down to God for helping them achieve their dream.
Major Ahluwalia left Guru Nanak’s picture, Rawat left Goddess Durga’s picture, Phu Dorji left a relic of Lord Buddha, and Edmund Hillary buried a Cross under the heap of snow and stones at Mount Everest.
On a concluding note, Major Ahluwalia emphasized that it was imperative for every person to climb the inner peak inside himself as that would bring a transformation in him.
He also added that perhaps climbing the inner summit within one’s mind is higher than the external peak of Mount Everest.
It is definitely worth the effort and truly satisfying.
The Great Stone Face is an interesting story written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The story is divided into two parts.
In this chapter, we shall discuss The Great Stone Face – Part 1.
The first part of the story revolves around a young man named Ernest and his fascination with the mountains and hilltops that seem to assume various shapes.
When Ernest was a little boy, his mother would tell him tales about the Great Stone Face in the valley that was visible from his cottage.
All the people in the valley would talk about the Great Stone Face.
Ernest learnt a great deal about it from the people in his neighbourhood.
The Great Stone Face was a local mountainside that had huge rocks and hilltops that resembled the features of a human being’s face from a distance.
It was very realistic and indeed, a work of nature.
Ernest always felt that the Great Stone Face was looking upon him with a smiling face.
His mother had told him a local legend that a man resembling the face of the gigantic mountain would come to the valley someday.
That man would be the noblest and greatest person in the valley.
This aroused Ernest’s curiosity even further.
He would spend hours gazing at the Great Stone Face, recollecting all that his mother told him about it.
As a child, he was a happy and helpful child who grew up to be a sedate and quiet man.
He had no teacher and felt that the Great Stone Face was like a teacher to him who would often give him a smile of kindness and encouragement.
Many years ago, there was a man, Gathergold, who left the valley to earn a fortune for himself.
There was a rumour throughout the valley that this man bore a resemblance to the Great Stone Face.
Later, when he returned to the valley after becoming rich, Ernest was eager to meet this nobleman.
However, when Ernest saw that man, he turned away sadly from the wrinkled shrewdness of the unpleasant face and looked up the valley at the Great Stone Face in disappointment.
He felt as though the Great Stone Face told him that the real look-alike would definitely come someday that would resemble the giant face.
Meanwhile, another man had joined the army and left the valley.
He was a famous Commander and was known on the battlefield as Blood-and-Thunder.
When he became old and tired, he returned to his native valley.
People of the valley treated him with great respect and honour.
Most people believed that he had a close resemblance to the Great Stone Face.
However, when Ernest saw the General’s face, he couldn’t recognise him and was not content with others’ views.
He still believed that the real look-alike of the Great Stone Face was yet to arrive in the valley.
He felt that the Great Stone Face silently whispered to him that the man resembling it would come soon.
Ernest agreed to wait until the man resembling the Great Stone Face arrived in the valley.
The Great Stone Face – Part 2 is the final instalment of the story.
In the second part, we learn that Ernest was still eagerly awaiting the arrival of the man resembling the Great Stone Face.
Ernest didn’t go out of the valley and continued to stay there.
He was a simple-hearted man who became wiser as he aged.
Instead of leading a lavish lifestyle outside the valley, he stayed back and worked for the betterment of the people in the valley.
Being humble and helpful in nature, his wisdom spread far and wide.
Many people would come and meet him to seek his advice.
One summer day, a poet arrived at Ernest’s door holding a book in his hand.
He requested Ernest to provide him shelter for a night, to which the latter happily agreed.
The poet was surprised by Ernest’s hospitable behaviour and was pleased to meet a wise, gentle and kind man.
Ernest was delighted to meet the poet, too and wondered if the poet resembled the Great Stone Face.
He told the poet that throughout his life, he had been eagerly awaiting the prophecy regarding the Great Stone Face to come true.
He felt that the poet held the likeness of the Great Stone Face.
To this, the poet faintly smiled and replied that he was not worthy of the likeness.
After having a long conversation with Ernest, the poet was greatly impressed by him.
At sunset, he accompanied Ernest as the latter was speaking to his neighbours.
He spoke very gently to the audience.
His words were powerful as they agreed with his real and deep thoughts.
The people harmonised with the life which Ernest had always lived in the valley.
It was not late before the poet realised that the man who resembled the Great Stone Face was none other than Ernest himself.
He was a nobleman with a thoughtful face and had kind behaviour towards everyone.
When the poet expressed this in the presence of the audience that Ernest was the actual look-alike of the Great Stone Face, everyone present vouched for the poet’s keen observation.
Thus, the people agreed that the prophecy was finally fulfilled.
However, Ernest was not content with this agreement and still hoped that some wiser and better man than himself would arrive in the valley bearing a resemblance to the Great Stone Face.
The Open Window was written by Hector Hug Munro, who was better known by the pen name ‘Saki’.
The story begins with Frampton Nuttel, who visits the countryside for treatment of his nerves.
He didn’t know anybody in that place, so his sister gave him some letters of introduction, hoping this would help him to get acquainted with a few people there.
Once he reaches the country, he visits Mrs. Sappleton, where he meets her fifteen-year-old niece named, Vera.
She is a confident and calm-looking girl who assures Mr Nuttel that her aunt will be coming downstairs soon.
Meanwhile, Vera enquires with him if he knows any people around that place.
He mentions that his sister visited that place some four years ago and gave him some letters of introduction.
On that account, he has come to visit Mrs. Sappleton.
As Mr Nuttel looks around the room, he realises that the house is also inhabited by men.
However, he is hesitant and wonders whether Mrs. Sappleton is a married woman or a widow.
While he is lost in thoughts, Vera suddenly mentions that about three years ago, her aunt’s husband and her two younger brothers went out for shooting but never returned.
She points towards the large French window that opens to a lawn.
Further, she tells Mr Nuttel that the men never came back as they were trapped in the swampy land, and their bodies could not be recovered to date.
Vera further says that her aunt, Mrs. Sappleton, always keeps this particular window open until it gets dark, hoping that her husband and brothers will return someday.
Sometimes, even Vera feels that her uncles would come through the open window along with their dog in the same manner.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Sappleton arrives and apologises for being late.
She also mentions her husband and brothers, who have gone out shooting for birds.
Besides, she tells Mr Nuttel that she keeps the window wide open for them to enter the house so that they do not ruin the carpet with their mud-coated shoes.
However, Mr Nuttel feels spooky air in the room, and he tries to change the topic of discussion.
But Mrs. Sappleton continues talking about shooting and the scarcity of birds in that area.
Soon, Frampton realises that she is looking towards the window while talking to him and not paying attention to him.
Suddenly she tells him that the men have returned from their shooting and were just on time for tea.
This frightens Mr Nuttel even more, and he shivers with fear.
He turns to look towards Vera for sympathy, but even the young girl is looking through the window with a dazed horror in her eyes.
Mr Nuttel starts feeling uncomfortable and suddenly notices three figures carrying guns under their arms, walking across the lawn towards the open window.
A tired brown spaniel is also coming along with them.
Frightened Mr Nuttel quickly grabs his stick and hat and rushes out of the house.
Finally, Mrs. Sappleton’s husband walks into the room but is surprised that Mr Nuttel hastened out of the room without meeting him.
Mrs. Sappleton tells her husband that he is ill and rushes out of the house even without bidding goodbye to anyone.
The way he exits the room appears that he has seen some ghosts.
To this, Vera states that probably Mr Nuttel is afraid of dogs.
She mentions how he was once attacked by dogs in a cemetery, and he was so nervous that he had to spend a night in a newly dug grave with the dogs growling around him.
The Comet – Part 1 is a story about the revelation of a comet discovered by Manoj Dutta.
Duttada was an amateur scientist who was keen to discover a comet with his telescope, Dibya Chakshu that meant ‘Divine Eye’.
He loved to spend his time watching the night sky with his telescope.
One moonless night in December, the cool breeze blew through the window, which disrupted Duttada’s wife, Indrani Debi’s sleep.
She woke up and found out that her husband had left the door open.
He didn’t wear a sweater in the cold weather and went to watch the night sky with his telescope.
Indrani Debi always cursed the telescope and felt it had grabbed her husband’s attention, like a shrewd woman.
Duttada had purchased the telescope with his retirement money and would spend his spare time observing the stars in the night sky.
His secret ambition was to discover a new comet in the sky.
Comets are new objects that come from remote corners of the solar system.
It has an interminable tail that is lit by the sunlight when it comes closer to the sun, then it recedes into darkness and disappears for many years or centuries.
Duttada was quite optimistic about discovering a new comet in the night sky as he felt that professional astronomers were more focused on finding galaxies.
On that night, Duttada discovered a new comet.
He re-examined his charts and was confident that there was no mistake in his calculations.
Two days later, the local newspaper, ‘Ananda Bazar Patrika’ published Duttada’s discovery of a new comet.
He had informed the Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA), Bangalore, about the comet and its whereabouts.
Later, IIA confirmed this discovery and the comet was named after Duttada as ‘Comet Dutta’.
This brought unwelcome attention to Duttada as he didn’t like attending functions and receptions.
Moreover, his wife, Indrani Debi had always thought that comets bring in bad luck, and she had desperately wished that this discovery should have never happened.
To this, Duttada told her that comets were just celestial objects and they had nothing to do with the issues or problems on Earth.
Meanwhile, in King’s College at Cambridge, Dr James Forsyth, who was an astronomer, received a letter that was sent by Sir John Macpherson.
In the letter, John told James that he would be interested in meeting him that night and discussing a confidential matter.
John Macpherson handed over a typescript to James that was supposed to be published in ‘Nature’.
James enquired how he got his manuscript.
To this, John replied that Taylor, the editor of ‘Nature’ where his paper was supposed to be published, was his close aide.
James stated that it should be published as it was urgent.
However, John said that he understood the importance of the manuscript and that they should not publish it right away.
As Sir John Macpherson was an accomplished scientist himself, Dr Forsyth thought it wise to discuss his paper with John and understand why he objected to publishing the manuscript.
As they discussed, they understood that if Comet Dutta collides with Earth, then it might have a catastrophic impact.
James said his calculations were precise and highly accurate.
He said that the collision was most likely to happen except for certain rare circumstances.
Sir John Macpherson said the publishing of his paper could have profound implications on society.
It would create a lot of panic among people, and they should do something to not let that dreadful news leak to the public right away.
James was a little apprehensive about not publishing his paper about Comet Dutta.
To this, Sir John Macpherson told him that his paper would be published, but James just needed to suppress his content with a few ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ so that it does not create panic among the masses.
Sir John Macpherson also assured James that an urgent secret meeting would be called with a team of experts from different countries to discuss the wretched comet.
Henceforth, Sir John Macpherson began to make preparations for an international conference.
The Comet – Part 2 is the concluding part of the previous chapter, The Comet – Part 1.
In this story, the discussion between Sir John Macpherson and Dr James Forsyth ended, and Sir John dropped James at his hotel at midnight at 1 a.m. At that time of the night, there was hardly any crowd on the street when James looked out of his window at the beautiful star-studded night sky.
He wondered if his calculations about Comet Dutta were right.
Soon enough, James met eminent scientists who came from different parts of the world to attend the secret conference that was organised by Sir John Macpherson.
Leading scientists and experts had gathered in a secret meeting to discuss how to avert Comet Dutta’s collision with Earth.
Sir John had specially invited Manoj Duttada, the person who discovered the comet, to the conference comprising experts, nuclear physicists, computer scientists, astronomers, etc.
According to Dr James Forsyth and some other scientist’s calculations, the impact of Comet Dutta was likely to be disastrous.
Hence, the purpose of the conference was to chalk out a plan to prevent the comet from colliding with Earth.
The secret conference was conducted for one week.
Duttada attended the conference as a special invitee of Sir John Macpherson to discuss the impact of Comet Dutta.
The scientists verified James’s calculations repeatedly to check if there was not a loop in it.
After detailed discussions, they came to the conclusion that there was no way that Earth could escape the collision with Comet Dutta.
However, the chances of the comet changing direction or simply touching the Earth’s atmosphere were bleak.
In any case, the comet was more likely to cause impactful damage to life and property.
They rejected defensive measures, and the main idea of their plan was to deflect the comet by giving it a slight push.
This was possible only with the help of nuclear power.
Sir John was so worried about the project that he said that he would delay buying Christmas presents until December 15.
By then, probably they would be certain whether the danger of Comet Dutta could be averted.
Duttada was deeply worried about the damage the comet might inflict on the planet.
However, when he returned to Calcutta, he was honoured by the people for his achievement.
Besides, his wife Indrani Debi had organised a yagna so that the priests could bless him and reduce the ill effects of the comet.
Duttada was not as superstitious as his wife, so he was sceptical about the entire religious ceremony and exhibited the least interest in it.
Over the next few days, Duttada was in constant touch with Sir John Macpherson about the status of the comet.
In due course, they became good friends.
Sir John also gave Duttada a few updates about the progress of the ‘Project Light Brigade’.
As Comet Dutta was approaching Earth at its own pace without exhibiting any signs of weakness, Duttada was extremely tense and was unable to share his anxiety with anyone.
His only task over the subsequent days was to monitor the comet regularly as slowly as it was visible to the naked eye too.
Finally, on November 18 a special messenger came on a scooter from the British Council who brought an urgent telex message for Duttada.
It was a message from Sir John Macpherson for Duttada stating that he was confident to buy his Christmas presents on December 15.
This meant that the secret meeting of scientists and their plan to avert the path of Comet Dutta’s collision with Earth was successful.
Duttada heaved a great sigh of relief, and he rushed to his favourite rasagolla shop in excitement.
On December 15, Comet Dutta came very near to Earth at a distance of 80,000 kilometres.
Millions watched the spectacular celestial event and admired it, but they were unaware of the danger and impact it might have caused if the comet had collided with Earth.
Indrani Debi took credit that because of the yagna conducted by her a few days ago, the disastrous impact of the comet could have been averted.
Hearing this, Duttada thought of his grandson performing the yagna and uttering mantras.
Meanwhile, this also reminded Duttada of the scientists discussing at the secret conference.
Hence, this brought forth two contrasting pictures of contemporary society – one was rational, and the other was mere superstition.
The gap between rational and superstition beliefs seemed huge for him to fill.
Thus, he wondered if human society would ever succeed in eliminating this gap.
Duttada had no definite answer to this question.
Several travellers from different parts of the world having diverse cultures and climates visited India.
They came here to explore the rich Indian culture, religions, philosophies, art and beauty, etc.
along with the educational practices prevalent in the country.
The salient features of the ancient education system in India focused on the holistic development of both the inner and outer self of an individual.
It emphasised on imparting rich human values such as honesty, self-discipline and reliance, humility among others.
The education system was primarily focused on the overall development of the student in terms of physical, mental, intellectual and moral aspects.
The learning was particularly based on the tenets of the Vedas and Upanishads that teach students about performing their duties towards self, family and the society as a whole.
The evolution of the ancient education system was derived from the Vedas, Upanishads, Brahmanas and Dharmasutras.
Some other sources of learning were the writings and the medical treatises and teachings of Sushruta and Charaka.
There were several branches or disciplines such as Shastras, Kavyas, Itihas, Anviksiki, Mimamsa, Shilpashastra, Arthashatra, Varta and Dhanurvidya among others from which students were imparted learning.
Besides, physical education was also considered an important co-curricular activity in the form of Krida or recreational games, Vyayamaprakara, Dhanurvidya and Yoga Sadhana These were some of the other disciplines that were taught with dedication and integrity.
Various kinds of debates among learners were also organised for assessment of their learning.
Besides, students were made to live a disciplined life so that they could realise their own potential.
Peer learning and teachings in groups were an integral part of education that promoted better learning among students.
Different educational institutions imparted education formally or informally.
In India, the school has been considered a temple of knowledge.
Gurukuls were the residential schools in and around the surroundings and the pathshalas, temples and schools were the premier institutes of knowledge.
Students who wished to pursue higher education could go to universities.
In ancient times, there were also women Vedic scholars.
In addition to providing education through scripts, the focus was also laid on personality development and skill-based learning.
From ancient times, several monasteries and viharas were set up for monks and nuns for meditation, debate and discussion purposes.
For higher education, universities were set up for students coming from different countries.
Kings and people of the society promoted education through Jataka tales given by Xuan Zang and I-Qing (Chinese scholars).
Some of the notable universities that developed during that period were situated at Nalanda, Takshashila, Valabhi, Odantapuri, Vikramshila and Jagaddala.
These universities catered to the needs of advanced level students who would develop knowledge through mutual discussions and debates with well-known scholars.
The kings would also summon scholars of several universities and they would meet, debate and exchange their views.
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has declared these universities as heritage sites that are considered the best centres of learning in the world.
Takshashila was a noted religious Buddhist centre of learning that attracted students from several countries.
This famous place of learning would impart knowledge through the study of ancient scriptures, medicine, law, military science, astronomy, arts, etc.
as a part of its curriculum.
Legendary academicians such as Panini, Jivaka and Chanakya have studied there.
The teacher also played a crucial role right from selecting students to framing the curriculum.
When the teacher was satisfied that the students had developed a good understanding, the course would conclude henceforth.
They encouraged oral learning among students.
Nalanda was one of the most renowned institutes of higher education.
The Chinese scholars such as I-Qing and Xuan Zang visited Nalanda in the seventh century CE and gave realistic accounts of the place of learning.
Besides, the syllabus was diverse as it included studying from the Vedas and students were also trained in fine arts, mathematics, medicine, astronomy, the art of warfare and politics.
The role of community was also significant in promoting education as financial support was given to educational institutions by rich merchants, well-to-do parents and society.
Free education was imparted in ancient universities such as Valabhi, Vikramshila and Jagaddala.
In South India, agraharas served as centres of learning.
South Indian kingdoms also had cultural institutions which were known as Ghatika and Brahmapuri.
Therefore, the ancient education system continued in ashrams, temples and indigenous schools.
During the medieval period, maktabas and madrassas also served as educational institutions.
Thus, the ancient Indian education system focused on the holistic development of the students, comprising both inner and outer self that would prepare them for life.
Our present education system has a lot to learn and derive from the ancient education system.
Educationists play a key role in recognising the importance of multilingual and multicultural education, thereby bridging the gap between traditional and contemporary methods of learning.
Jalebis is a moral story written by Ahmed Nadeem Qasmi.
This value-based story is about an honest young boy, Munna, who yielded to his sweet temptation of having jalebis with the money that he was supposed to pay his school fees.
One day Munna, a fifth-class student, was going to school with four rupees in his pocket.
This money was given to him by his parents to pay his school fees.
However, that day his teacher, Master Ghulam Mohammed was on leave, so he could not make the payment.
While he was returning home, Munna was filled with temptation at the sight of fresh jalebis.
The coins in his pocket were also jingling, and he felt those coins were persuading him to buy jalebis with them.
The oldest rupee told him he could pay his fees with the scholarship money that was due the following day.
He realised that the coins talking to him were simply a figment of his imagination.
Munna initially resisted spending the money as it was meant to pay his fees, but he finally gave in to his sweet-tooth craving.
At first, he purchased jalebis with one rupee coin.
He devoured a mound of jalebis and later purchased more with the remaining money and distributed it among the children in the neighbourhood who had assembled there.
Soon, Munna returned home and had difficulty in having food as his stomach was filled with jalebis.
But he was more worried about how to pay the fees the following day as he had spent all the money on buying jalebis.
The next day when he went to school, he didn’t get the scholarship as it was due the following month.
His teacher, Master Ghulam Mohammed announced that the fees would be collected during recess time.
Hearing this, Munna left the school and simply walked until he reached the starting point of the Kambelpur railway station.
His elders had warned him not to cross the railway tracks on his own anytime.
He remembered that they had also told him earlier never to eat sweets with the fees money.
Filled with the guilt of popping Jalebis with the school fees money, he sat under a tree and wondered how to pay his fees.
In desperation, he thought God could help him, so he offered prayers to the Almighty and recited a few verses of the Holy Book, the Quran.
In his prayers, he earnestly requested God to give him four rupees so that he could pay his school fees.
He admitted that it was his mistake to eat jalebis with the fees money.
He promised that he would not repeat it and ardently requested God to put four rupees in his bag.
Later, when he checked his bag, he became sad as he couldn’t find any money in it.
Saddened, he returned home and didn’t tell anyone at home that he skipped his classes in school.
The following day, he wore fresh clothes, left home for school, but returned from the school gate.
He offered another prayer to God, requesting to give him four rupees.
He requested the Almighty to keep the money under the rock and he would collect the money kept underneath.
Later, when he lifted the rock, Munna found a small worm wriggling under the rock and there was no money there.
He continued praying every day with the hope that God would send him money to pay his fees, but nothing happened.
Soon, the news of his absence from school reached home, and he was scolded by his parents for not attending his classes.
Later, when Munna was in the seventh or eighth standard, he went on thinking about what harm could it have possibly caused anyone if God had sent him four rupees to pay his fees.
Over the years, when Munna grew older, he came to realise that if God gave everything that we asked for, then there would be no difference left between man and other living creatures.
He understood that man would not learn anything on his own if he got everything that he desired without any effort.
This was an important lesson that Munna learnt from this incident.
The Fight is an interesting story written by Ruskin Bond about two boys, Ranji and Suraj.
Ranji had moved to Rajpur recently, and one day he discovered a beautiful pool in the middle of a forest.
He was surprised to see the translucent water of the pool.
It was mid-summer and very hot.
Seeing the pool, Ranji jumped into the water and enjoyed bathing in the cool water and swam across the pool heartily.
The next day, he visited the pool again and took another dip in the water.
After some time, he noticed another boy was standing by the pool.
As Ranji had a friendly nature, he and the other boy began talking.
Ranji asked him to join him in the pool for swimming.
However, the other boy did not reciprocate properly and reacted differently.
He told Ranji that he did not like talking to strangers and preferred to chase them away from the pool.
This angered Ranji, and he warned them to beat the other boy.
Soon, the argument between them heated up and they started fighting violently.
The other boy, named Suraj slapped Ranji so hard that he started feeling dizzy.
They threw punches on each other and fought furiously.
Eventually, both of them got tired and decided to continue the fight the following day.
That day when Ranji reached home, he was unable to hide cuts and bruises on his body from his mother, who got worried looking at his condition.
She insisted he stay at home and take a rest.
But towards the evening, Ranji slipped out of his house and went to the market.
He bought a lemonade and a few jalebis to comfort himself.
While eating, he noticed Suraj and wanted to spill the lemonade on him.
However, he did nothing, neither did Suraj.
They simply scowled at each other and left the place.
The next day, both the boys reached the pool.
Although Ranji felt weak and lazy to pick up another fight with Suraj, he did not give up.
Suraj challenged him to swim across the length of the pool, and then they would decide who had a right to swim in the pool.
Ranji accepted the challenge as he felt that if he gave up, he would lose the right to swim in the beautiful pool.
He dived into the pool at once and completed it effortlessly without even getting tired.
This surprised Suraj greatly, and he wished that he could learn diving from Ranji.
When Ranji learnt that Suraj was interested in learning diving from him, he readily agreed and decided to teach him to swim.
Meanwhile, Suraj, who was a Pahlawan himself, decided to help Ranji learn some wrestling techniques and guide him to become a Pahlawan.
They both decided to continue with their lessons by the pool every day.
Finally, both the boys became friends and decided to help each other to learn each other’s skills and also keep a check that no one would be allowed in their pool without their permission.
Princess September was written by William Somerset Maugham.
It is the story of a princess named September.
She had eight elder sisters who were named after months of the year.
The King of Siam had a strange habit of giving gifts on his own birthday.
So, he and his wife, the Queen, had gifted a parrot in a golden cage to each of their nine daughters.
All the princesses were happy to receive their gifts, and they would spend an hour with their pets daily.
All the parrots could say ‘God save the King’, and some could even say ‘Pretty Polly’ in seven different Oriental languages.
One day, Princess September went to meet her parrot and found it lying dead in its golden cage.
She burst into tears seeing her dead pet.
Her Maids of Honour could do nothing to comfort her.
They informed the Queen, who told them to put the little princess to sleep without supper.
They had to go to a party, so they put the little girl to bed quickly and left her crying all by herself.
As she was crying, she noticed a little bird hop into her room.
He started singing a beautiful song near the lake in the King’s garden with the willow trees looking at themselves in the still water and the goldfish gliding in and out of the branches that were reflecting in the water.
She was so engrossed in the bird’s song that she completely forgot that she didn’t have her supper.
She praised the little bird when he finished his song.
The little bird bowed to the princess and asked her if she would like to keep him in her parrot’s place.
He admitted that he wasn’t as pretty as other birds, but he could certainly sing beautiful songs for the princess.
Princess September clapped her hands delightfully, and as the bird sang another song, she quickly fell asleep.
The next morning, she found that the bird was still there, and she bathed the bird in her saucer and fed some rice to him with her own hand.
Soon, she took the bird to the King, Queen and her sisters.
Everyone was surprised and delighted when they heard his song.
The King particularly mentioned that he was fed up with hearing ‘God save the King’ and ‘Pretty Polly’ from the parrots.
He compared these words to his Councillors, who would always say the same thing repeatedly.
Listening to the beautiful song of the little bird was a lovely surprise for him too.
The other princesses were vexed and started feeling jealous of Princess September’s little singing bird.
The bird flew and sang around the rooms of the palace like a nightingale.
The princesses suggested Princess September buy a new parrot, but she responded that she already had a pet bird who could sing beautiful songs for her.
They also told her that since the bird was free, he could fly away from her anytime.
They advised her to keep him in a cage to prevent him from flying away.
However, the little princess trusted her bird and believed that he would never betray her.
Once, it so happened that the little bird went to visit his father-in-law but took longer than usual to return to Princess September.
She was so worried that she popped him into the cage right away when he returned.
When the bird asked why she put him in, she replied that this would keep him safe from the cats roaming in the palace.
The next morning, the little bird requested the princess to open the cage, but she refused to let him out.
Princess September asked him to sing for her, but he could not do so.
On insisting, he said that he wanted to see the trees, the lake and the green rice fields.
He did not eat food as well.
Princess September listened to her sisters’ advice and kept the bird locked in the golden cage.
In due course of time, the bird stopped singing and didn’t sing songs as he used to before.
The princess enquired why he didn’t sing.
The bird replied that he could not sing if he were not set free, as he would die if he were kept locked inside the cage for a long time.
Princess September didn’t want to lose her little friend like her pet parrot, so she set him free.
The bird flew away and promised to return soon.
The princess kept her window open, and the bird would visit her often.
He sang lovely melodious songs for her.
As the years passed, Princess September grew up to be a very beautiful young lady due to exposure to natural sunlight and air coming through her window.
Later, she got married to the King of Cambodia.
However, her sisters were not pretty at all and were married to the King’s Councillors with a Siamese cat and a pound of tea.
The Treasure Within is an extract from a discussion between Ms Bela Raja, the editor of a newsletter called Sparsh from the Resource Centre at The Valley School in Bangalore and Mr Hafeez Contractor, who is one of India’s most eminent architects.
As a child, Mr. Hafeez Contractor was not so fond of going to school.
He detested bookish knowledge or machine learning.
He stated that he used to get nightmares, particularly about the Mathematics examination.
He often dreamt that he didn’t know anything about the subject.
However, he was more inclined towards sports and playing pranks on others.
He was a fabulous sportsman and had been the senior champion and cricket captain for many years in school.
Further, he admitted that he would clear most of his exams normally by copying and cheating from others.
However, while he was in the eleventh standard, the school Principal advised that he should focus on his studies as he was a good student, just that he hardly paid heed to his books.
The Principal also told him that all this while, he had taken care of Hafeez, now the youngster should learn to take care of himself and urged him to focus on his studies.
Those words brought a change in young Hafeez as he followed the Principal’s advice.
Thereafter, he would simply go to offer his prayers, eat and study all the time.
He scored 50 percent in his SSC exams.
He participated in a lot of other activities.
Later, Ms Bela asked if he was ever punished by his teachers in school.
To this, Mr Hafeez replied that he was mostly interested in playing and would receive a caning every week.
Besides being the gang leader, he would get involved in group fights.
He also remembered that one day in school, he was least interested in studying in class, so he created a distraction in class, and everyone played ‘chor police’ for one full hour.
Furthermore, Mr Hafeez mentioned that he wanted to join the army after school.
But his family were not in favour of him joining even the police force.
His mother told him to complete his graduation first.
Although he had studied French for a few years, he was weak in it.
So he decided to learn German, but soon his teacher passed away.
So, he took admission to the Jai Hind College by influence.
He learnt French with the help of his cousin, who was an architect’s wife.
Eventually, he started going to her husband’s office to brush up on his French language skills.
One fine day in the architect’s office, he saw an advanced drawing of a window detail made by an employee of the office.
Looking at the design, Mr Hafeez told him that there was an error in the sketch as the window drawn might not open.
He was indeed right.
When his cousin’s husband saw this, he was surprised at his knowledge, so he asked him to draw a few things.
He did so immediately.
His cousin’s husband was highly impressed by his skill and suggested that he start studying architecture.
Soon, they went to the Principal of the college for architecture, who said that he would allow Hafeez to sit for the entrance exam, but he wouldn’t grant him admission if he didn’t do well in the exam.
He scored an ‘A+’ grade in the entrance exam, and thereafter, he always scored well throughout his course.
He also mentioned to Ms Bela one of his friends, Behram Divecha.
They would design different things every time and often had a competition among themselves, particularly for designing forts, guns and ammunition.
Later, when Mr Hafeez became an architect, he went to visit Mrs. Gupta, his teacher who would often appreciate his sketches in school.
She always advised him that he should become an architect when he grew up.
Thus, Mr Hafeez admits that his school life was not that great as he passed with average grades.
He said he learnt from personal experiences more than academic knowledge.
After becoming an architect, now he observes his clients closely to understand their tastes, and then he designs a sketch spontaneously on the spot, as per their requirements.
According to Mr Hafeez, he feels that his sketches are like Mathematics problems for him.
Thus, the subject that he once despised, he now loves dealing with it.
The Selfish Giant is a beautiful tale of spreading love written by Oscar Wilde.
The story begins with the children playing in the beautiful garden of the Giant.
They used to come to play in his garden every afternoon after returning from school.
The garden was a lovely place with trees bearing rich fruits and beautiful flowers all over.
The birds would sing sweetly, sitting on top of the trees.
One day, the Giant returned home from his friend Cornish Ogre’s place after seven years.
The children were afraid when they saw him.
When he noticed the children playing in his garden, he chased them away and didn’t allow anybody to play there.
So, he built a huge wall around the lovely garden and put up a notice board stating that trespassers would be prosecuted.
Seeing this, the children became sad as they lost a nice place to play games.
They would roam about the high walls of the garden and often missed the beautiful garden inside those walls.
Soon, Spring season began, and the trees blossomed with beautiful and colourful flowers everywhere, and little birds would sing around those trees.
But in the Giant’s garden, it was still Winter as there was Frost and Snow all over the garden.
In the absence of the children, the birds did not come to sing, and the trees did not bloom in his garden.
Once, a small flower bud bloomed out of the grass, but when it saw the notice board, it slipped back to the ground and went back to sleep.
In no time, Snow covered up the grass in its white blanket, and Frost painted all the trees in silver colour.
They invited the North Wind, who roared wildly all day in the garden.
Soon, Hail joined them, and he would rattle the roof of the castle often, breaking the slates of the roof.
Meanwhile, the Giant used to often wonder why Spring didn’t arrive at his garden that year.
Neither Summer nor Autumn came, and there was no golden fruit in his garden due to his selfishness.
One fine morning as the Giant was lying awake in his bed, he heard sweet music coming from his garden.
He noticed that the Hail and North Wind had finally stopped roaring, and he could smell delicious fragrance through the open casement.
He jumped out of his bed and thought that Spring had finally arrived in his garden.
Suddenly, he saw that the children had started entering his garden through a tiny hole in the wall.
The children who crept in were sitting on the branches of trees, and the trees started blossoming in his garden.
He also noticed that the birds were flying everywhere, and he could hear them chirping.
The flowers also bloomed in the brightest and most colourful way making his garden a cheerful place for everyone.
To his surprise, he noticed that there was still Winter in one corner of the garden.
He noticed that there was a small boy who was standing in front of a tree as he was unable to reach the branches of the tree in front of him.
Although the tree lowered its branches towards him, even then, he was too tiny to climb it.
When the Giant saw this, his heart melted.
He realised how selfish he had been in not allowing the children to play in his garden.
The Giant broke the wall that he had built around his garden so that the children could come and play in his garden forever.
The children would get scared whenever they saw him, and Winter would again set in his garden.
However, the little boy didn’t run away on seeing the Giant.
Unable to climb the tree, he started weeping, so the Giant gently took him in his arms and put him on the top of a tree.
Soon, the tree blossomed again.
As a gesture of thankfulness, the little boy kissed the Giant’s cheek.
When the other children realised that the Giant was not selfish or wicked anymore, they came back.
Again Spring returned to the garden along with the children.
Thereafter, the Giant used to play with the children in his garden every afternoon, but that little boy was never seen again.
Many years passed, and the Giant became weak and old.
One winter morning, he noticed a tree that had blossomed with lovely white flowers in one corner of his garden.
The tree branches were golden, and the little boy was standing under it.
The Giant was very happy upon seeing the little boy in his garden.
He noticed that the palms of the child’s hands had prints of two nails and were wounded.
The Giant got angry on seeing this, and he said in anger that he would slay the man with his sword who harmed the little one.
To this, the boy replied that these were the wounds of love.
The boy smiled and invited the Giant to come to his garden, which was paradise.
Later in the afternoon, when the children came to the garden, they found the Giant lying dead under the tree, covered with white blossoms all over his body.
This poem is about the poet Thomas Hardy, who had once visited a parish.
He went there as a young apprentice architect to supervise the restoration of a church.
When he returned from the parish, people noticed two things about him – a new glow in his eyes and a crumpled piece of paper sticking out of his coat pocket.
That paper was recorded in one of his biographies and contained the draft of a poem.
That poem was “When I Set Out for Lyonnesse” and was inspired by a visit to a place which the poet calls Lyonnesse.
So, this poem describes how a single visit to a place brought so many changes in the poet’s life.
To him, it was a wonderful experience that changed his life completely.
The poet went to Lyonnesse to supervise the renovation work of a church which was 100 miles away.
It was winter season, with the fog spreading everywhere.
The leaves of the plants were covered with frost.
The light of twinkling stars guided the poet on a lonely path.
The poet stayed at Lyonnesse for some time.
In that short duration, he found something was happening to him.
It was an inner change that no prophet could dare to predict nor the wisest wizard could guess.
The poet was unable to understand the feelings that he was going through.
When the poet returned from Lyonnesse, everyone noticed a change in his eyes.
The poet’s eyes were filled with a magical glow.
They were shining with joy.
Everyone tried silently to guess the reason for the poet’s deep radiance and happiness.
However, they weren’t able to find it.
The visit to Lyonnesse brought a major transformation in the poet’s life.
After that, he started enjoying his life.
The poet describes the story of a cat, Macavity.
He is also known as Hidden Paw.
He is a master criminal who can break the law.
Even the Scotland Yard police and a flying squad of England fail to catch him.
Macavity is the mastermind and does not leave any evidence on the crime scene.
Due to this, the police never succeed in catching him.
In the second stanza, the poet says that Macavity is unique.
There is no one quite like Macavity.
He breaks every human law and even the law of nature.
His ability to float in the air without any physical support makes a fakir wonder about his power.
Surprisingly, when people reach the crime scene, they cannot find him.
The poet elaborates that neither can he be found in the basement nor in the air.
Macavity runs away from the crime scene extremely fast.
In this stanza, the poet describes the physical appearance of Macavity.
He says that Macavity is a ginger cat.
He is very tall and thin.
His eyes are sunken, and his brows are deeply wrinkled.
His head is round like a dome.
The coat of Macavity is full of dust.
His hair is uncombed.
His head moves from side to side, making movements like a snake.
When you think he is half asleep, he is in fact, wide awake.
The poet says that there is no one like Macavity.
He is a cruel animal in a cat’s shape.
He is a monster of dishonesty and immoral behaviour.
You can meet him in the street, or you may see him in the open ground.
However, when a crime is committed, you won’t find Macavity there.
She begins the diary entry with her response to the sound of the clock from Westertoren, a church in Amsterdam.
Anne finds the sound from the clock interesting and reassuring, especially during the night.
The clock bell goes on every quarter of an hour.
Her parents and her sister Margot hated this sound.
She writes the diary in a conversational manner.
She considered her diary like a human being.
She is expressing her feelings and emotions in her writing.
The diary was her go to person to express herself in the most difficult times.
She soon realizes that she does not like the hiding place and it can never be home for her.
Even then she does not hate the hiding place rather she finds it like a holiday home.
It can never replace her home.
Everything around looks odd to her.
She finds the Annexe to be a good hiding place.
She informs her diary, Kitty, that the Annexe to be the one of the most comfortable hiding places in the whole of Holland.
Earlier her bedroom walls were blank but soon she fixed the wall with all her postcard collection and film star collections.
She is extremely grateful to her dad for carrying it with him.
She found the wall to be much more cheerful with all the decor.
She then mentions the arrival of van Daans, the other family who will soon arrive to live with them in the attic.
Her mother and sister were getting better in health.
Since her mother was feeling better she made the split-pea soup.
Unfortunately, her mother had to go downstairs leaving it on the stove and it got spoiled.
It was even difficult to scrap the residue of the dish out of the pan.
She then mentions about the four of them going downstairs at night to the private office to listen to the news.
Anne was so scared if any of their neighbors would find them.
She begged them to return upstairs, her mother understanding her anxiety went back along with her.
They had started to make curtains with the leftover fabrics from the first day onwards.
Anne and her Dad stitched them up with their unskilled hands.
This was one means through which they could remain out of their neighbors' sight.
Actually, you can hardly call them that, since they’re nothing but scraps of fabric, varying greatly in shape, quality and pattern, which Father and I stitched crookedly together with unskilled fingers.
These works of art were tacked to the windows, where they’ll stay until we come out of hiding.
This particular diary entry describes a lot about her locality.
To the right side of their hiding place, was a branch of Keg Company.
It is a company based in Zaandam, a nearby town.
To the left there was a furniture shop.
There were workers during the day time, which meant they cannot make any noise as the sound easily travels across the walls.Due to this they had asked Margot to not cough at night even though she had a severe cold.
To avoid loud coughing and to ensure her to get better they had to provide her large doses of codeine, a medicine that helps to sleep and reduce pain.
Anne is looking for the arrival of van Daans to lighten up the mood.
Since they cannot go out or even look out she wants to hear some people around her.
She wishes if Mr.Kleiman, Miep and Bep Voskuijl could stay below the attic so that they could have some human interactions.
She goes on to mention about the storage of food for their hiding days.
They had loaded up on preserved food including rhubarb, strawberries, cherries etc to make jam.
Similarly, they had carried board games to keep them engaged.
The night before this diary they had worked very hard and brought in two crates of cherries to preserve.
They are now planning to make a bookshelf with those empty crates.
Anne leaves her diary mid way during this diary entry.
Someone called her and she had to discontinue her thoughts.
This is an instance where we realize that Anne is treating her diary like a friend.
She begins the entry by stating that now they are truly into hiding, which implies that they are completely cut off from the outside world and can no longer move out of the annex.
Many houses houses have been searched by the Nazi army, hence for security Mr. Kugler thought of keeping a bookshelf at the entrance of the secret hiding to cover it from any possible searched by the Nazi police.
Mr. Voskujil helped them with the carpentry and he was really helpful.
Now, each time they have to go downstairs they have to duck and then jump.
In the first few days of this shift in arrangements they hit their forehead and had bumps on them.
Later Peter van Daan cushioned it with a towel stuffed with wood shavings.
Anne is narrating as well as unconsciously documenting all the hardships they had to go through to escape death.
As she had to go into hiding she has now taken a break from school work.
Her dad has decided to teach her from September, but before that they have to get hold of the text books.
She realizes that their lives have changed.
She is always arguing with Mr. van Daan.
Her mother still treats her like a baby which she is not pleased with.
She is not having a good time with Peter.
She calls him “obnoxious”, which meant someone who was unpleasant to be with.
According to Anne Petter is a stupid and unpleasant person who took naps all the time and did some carpentary for namesake.
She comments on the weather of that particular day and describes how they try to get some of it by only lounging on the folding bed in the attic.
This entry draws attention to the unflattering side of hiding.
She is no longer excited about the change and is uncomfortable with a lot of people around her.
The anger, irritation and the frustration is visible in her writing.
On this day Anne is giving her diary a life update from the Annexe.
A lamb had been put up on her bed so that she can easily turn on the light if she again had a scary night.
But right now she is unable to use it as her window is left open a little day and night.
Meanwhile, van Daans have built a wood stained food safe to preserve food.
He has also moved the cupboard in Peter’s room to the attic to ensure some fresh air.
In the place of the cupboard now is a shelf.
Snake advised Peter to put his table under the shelf with a rug underneath.
This shift in arrangement might give more space and comfort in the small room.
Even if these changes are done Anne does not like to be in that room.
She goes on rambling that a lot is taking place each day and she is tired of writing all of it down in the diary.
Like most Ruskin Bond stories, the chapter “The Blue Umbrella” is also set in the Himalayas.
The story revolves around Binya and the “blue umbrella” she received from the tourists.
She is a typical mountain girl who takes the cows to the grazing field.
She fetches water from the spring and carries the milk to the tea shops on the Tehri road.
During these chores, she carries her dear blue umbrella with her.
The author describes her walking around with the blue umbrella as a patch of the sky that can be seen on the hillside.
The villagers use the Tehri road to go to the market.
Some people choose to take the bus and some others walk or travel on a mule.
Each time people on the road take notice of this girl walking with the “bright blue umbrella”.
One day she was resting under a pine tree.
The umbrella lay open beside her.
She soon dozed off as it was a warm, summery day.
As she was sleeping a strong wind came her way.
It came so silently and gushed over the trees.
Soon the wind was joined by other winds and became a stronger force.
The trees moved their heads as the wind slided through them.
The wind fanned Binya’s cheeks and moved the umbrella that was lying on the grass.
The author has used a lot of adjectives to describe the wind’s movement such as ‘quietly, swishing, gently, and humming softly.
The wind and the trees are personified here.
The wind grew stronger over the course of time and lifted the dead leaves from the ground.
It started to drag along the umbrella and carried it six feet away from Binya.
Soon, the sound of the wind woke her up.
She sprang up and understood that the umbrella had moved from her reach.
She started following the umbrella that was being dragged by the wind.
The wind was in a “wicked, playful mood”.
The umbrella went on dancing, floating and bouncing away from her.
Again the writer is using personification to describe the wind and the umbrella.
As it went, the hill started to get steeper and riskier.
Binya realized that her umbrella would soon go off into the steep cliff (precipice).
She ran as much as she could to prevent that.
But the wind was way ahead of her.
She went to the edge of the cliff.
There were only a few bushes and a cherry tree that grew on that steep cliff.
The umbrella had got stuck on that cherry tree.
Binya was raised among the hills.
She was not scared of the cliff.
She did not think twice before trying to get her umbrella off from the cherry tree standing on a sharp cliff.
Binya did not hesitate.
She may have been timid with strangers, but she was at home on a hillside.
She stuck her bare leg over the edge of the cliff and began climbing down, she kept her face to the hillside, feeling her way with her feet, only changing her handhold when she knew her feet were secure.
She knew the trick to climb safely down the cliff.
She knew which bush to trust and which not to.
This proves her familiarity with the hillside and its vegetation.
There were loose stones on the hillside which fell deep into the bottom of the hill.
So she had to be careful not to slip or push anything down as it might kick start a landslide.
The author compares her to a “mountain-goat” as she could easily and swiftly move around on the mountain.
She just took 5 minutes to reach the ‘crooked cherry tree’.
Even then the most difficult part was pending.
She had to crawl along the trunk of the tree which was standing at the right angle from the cliff.
Only then she could reach the umbrella.
She climbed through the bark by gripping her toes on the bard of the tree and using her knees as leverage.
She was proud of the fact that her brother Bijju and herself knew how to climb trees.
She was almost there, but she felt a fear as she knew that she was over the chasm and eight feet below there was a river flowing.
As she looked down she felt dizzy.
Her hands started to shake therefore the tree also started to shiver.
She was fully aware that she would fall into deep down.
She soon gathered her concentration and kept aiming at the umbrella.
She managed to get hold of it.
However, she could not crawl back with her hands.
Hence she let the umbrella fall into the ravine.
It landed on a group of nettles.
The umbrella’s journey down was made smooth with the soft flowing wind.
She soon crawled her way back and rushed down.
She took 20 minutes to reach the thorny nettles where her umbrella was resting.
Her legs had the nettle stings but she was delighted to get her umbrella.
Twenty minutes later she emerged from the nettle clump, her precious umbrella held aloft.
She had nettle stings all over her legs, but she was hardly aware of the smarting.
The story tells us the bravery of the young girl and her love for her dear blue umbrella.
As readers we must appreciate and admire her presence of mind even in difficult situations and her smartness to get her way through any challenge.
Binya is a small girl growing up in the part of Himalayas known as Garhwal.
She is a normal girl who takes care of her family.
She goes out to graze her cows and distributes the milk in the nearby tea shops.
She always had a blue umbrella that she was extremely fond of.
Some tourists gifted it to her.
She helps in house chores such as collecting water from the spring or going to the market.
She was a fierce mountain girl who took pride in climbing trees.
Binya is a highly determined child.
She never gives up on her umbrella.
She is a brave kid.
She did not fear climbing over a tree that was at the right angle to the ravine.
She has immense concentration power.
It was only because of her deep concentration that she could untable her umbrella from the cherry tree.
Binya is extremely fond of her blue umbrella.
She is said to carry it around her all the time.
The author mentions this in the beginning of the story.
It looked as if a part of the blue sky was walking through the hills.
Her love for her umbrella is further established when she risked her life to get it back.
She didn't even bother getting stings from the herbs to get her umbrella back.
These instances prove that she was fond of her blue umbrella.
The Canterville Ghost by Oscar Wilde is a humor take on the horror genre.
The author turns the usual horror trope into something worth laughing about.
The American man named Hiram B Otis buys Canterville Chase, which is an English country house.
He was warned about the presence of the ghost by Lord Canterville.
Even then he decided to buy that house and soon moved in with his family.
Immediately as they moved in Mrs. Otis noticed a big blood stain on the floor.
The housemaid informs Mrs. Otis that it is the evidence of the ghost and the unnatural deaths and murders that occered years back.
However, Mrs Otis was determined to remove the stain from the floor.
Her son suggests Pinkerton's Champion Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent to remove the blood stain.
Unlike the usual ghost story narratives, here the characters are looking at things in a logical manner.
They do not get drawn away by the supernatural, rather they try and incorporate this supernatural in their daily life.
Soon, at night, the ghost decides to make the first appearance.
But Mr. Otis offers him Tammany Rising Sun Lubricator to oil his rusted chains that make noise.
Ghost is completely startled at this response.
The ghost was getting tired as he was attempting to scare them for the past four weeks.
The ghost himself was getting nervous and scared through their actions.
His nerves were completely shattered and he started at the slightest noise.
He decided to remove the bloodstain on the library floor.
He came to the conclusion that if the Ottis family did not want it then they did not deserve it.
He consoled himself by stating that they are not the kind of people who appreciated the value of any sensuous phenomenon.
Since, the family only thought rationally they could not appreciate or get involved in the paranormal activities the ghost was trying to perform.
Even though the ghost was evil in his lifetime he was dedicated to the work he did.
Due to his commitment he walked all Saturdays on the corridors between midnight and three o'clock.
During his routine walk he made sure to take precaution to never be heard or seen.
He used the “Rising sun lubricator” for oiling his chains.
He had taken this bottle the other night when the family was having dinner.
He was ashamed to use the lubricator but he soon understood the value of this invention and the need for it in his survival.
Even after taking these precautions he had to face humiliation.
The strings were pulled across the corridors which made him fall.
At times, he fell down due to the butter-slide placed by the twins.
Still in spite of everything, he was not left unmolested.
Strings were continually being stretched across the corridors…
In the last fall, he decided to regain his authority over the castle and show these humans what he was capable of doing.
He turned into his favorite character which was the Headless Earl.
He took three hours to prepare for this role.
He was happy to see himself in the character.
At quarter-past one he went out and roamed around in the corridor, headless.
He headed straight to the twin’s room.
The door was not closed which made it an easy entrance.
Alas, the kids threw a jug of water at him.
It gave a shock to his nervous system.
He ended with a severe cold the next day.
He found comfort in the fact he did not carry his head along.
Or else the consequences might have been severe.
He now gave upon his attempts to frighten his rude American family.
He tried to console himself by simply creeping about in the corridors.
The next day he was taking his usual stroll.
He was making sarcastic comments on the picture of the US Minister and wife that had taken the place of the Canterville Family picture.
He was dressed as the Corpse-Snatcher of Chertsey Barn.
He was very proud of his outfit.
The time was about a quarter past two.
There were no signs of the family.
He wanted to check the blood stains on the library floor and headed to the library.
Suddenly, the twins jumped in front of him and scared him to death.
He ran to the staircase.
Seized in panic, which, under the circumstances, was only natural, he rushed for the staircase.
Through the tale of the Canterville ghost the author Oscar Wilde is taking a twist on the field of horror by making it humorous through the logical actions of humans.
The author also provides all human emotions to his ghost making it stand out from the rest of the horror stories of the time.
The Otis family moved to Canterville Castle despite the warning from the previous owners.
Mr and Mrs. Otis had a daughter and two boys who were twins.
They used logic and intellect to describe and explain the supernatural elements and happenings in the house.
This American family was extremely rude and brutal to the ghost and his tricks.
Nothing seemed to scare them as they did not believe in ghosts.
They even offered lubricating oil to the ghost to oil his noisy chains.
Finally, the ghost got scared of the family and decided to never interfere with the family.
The ghost was frustrated as the family did not get scared of his tricks.
He had made a blood stain on the library corridor to scare the family.
Mrs. Otis was not afraid to see the blood stain but instead she tried to wash away the stain.
Similarly, all his tricks did not work on the family rather they started to mock and make fun of him.
This frustrated him.
Oscar Wilde has painted the character of the Canterville ghost like a human.
He gets upset when the family is not scared and instead plays tricks on him.
In fact he gets scared at the end of the story.
The ghost in the story has all the human emotions such as anger, frustration, sadness.
He also feels humiliated and decides to give up on his attempts to scare this American family.
Poet finds the television screens to distort and destroy the imaginative and thinking ability in young minds.
TV sets kill the senses and the ability to wonder and have a creative mind.
By watching the idiot box the kids will reach a position where they no longer can understand a fantasy or a fairytale.
Poets also believe that their brains would be as soft as a cheese without any thinking or logical reasoning.
These are the demerits of television according to the poet.
Most people believe that the desert is an endless stretch of land.
They thin.
that it is dry, hot, waterless and without shelter.
The specialists, however, see the desert as a beautiful place.
For them a desert is the home of a variety of people, animals and plants.
True, that it does not always have a cover of grass.
The rain is rare.
But when it does, the desert becomes as beautiful as any tropical garden.
A desert may sometimes have mountains and hills.
It may have an oasis also.
A desert can be hot like the Thar or cold like Ladakh.
In general, when a place has little or no water and vegetation, people call it a desert.
Sand dunes are found in those deserts which are almost totally without water.
These dunes keep on shifting across the desert.
All creatures need water.
The animals and plants of the desert are able to survive on less water.
A camel can do without water for days together.
The reason is that a camel can drink a lot of water at one time.
Now camels do not sweat, so they retain the water they drink for a long time.
Smaller desert animals get their water from the moisture in the things they eat.
So some of them get the water they need from the animals they eat.
Those who don’t eat meat, eat plants and seeds.
Thus they get the needed water from plant juices.
In our cities and villages, the climate is humid.
The moisture in the air acts like a blanket.
It protects the earth from the hot rays of the sun.
So the earth is not very hot during the day.
The same cover doesn’t let the heat go out during the night.
So the earth is not very cold during the night.
Thus the variation in temperature during the 24 hours is not much.
Since there is no such cover in the desert, there is much variation between the day and night temperature there.
The temperature rises much during the day.
In the same way, it falls much during the night.
A Thing of Beauty is about appreciating anything and everything around us.
Anything that looks beautiful is a source of joy for us.
A beautiful thing becomes more attractive as we keep enjoying it.
The more we look closely at its beauty, the more we discover its stunning features.
We never forget a thing of beauty as its memory is etched into our minds due to the joy and loveliness received from it.
The after-effect of a beautiful thing is that it will always prove to be a source of happiness and peace, just like a shade under a tree or a sleep full of sweet dreams.
Our lives, as a consequence, will be full of good health and peace.
Humans are connected to nature in a very close way.
We participate in various earthly activities to keep ourselves attached to mother nature.
Bonding with nature around us has been compared to wreathing flowery bands.
There are many negative things in our lives, like dealing with hopelessness, encountering people who are not kind or compassionate by nature and facing various immoral and inhuman activities that lessen our belief in humanity.
Despite acknowledging the presence of these things, a beautiful thing never fails to uplift our moods.
It makes us forget our worries and troubles away.
We can find beauty anywhere if we want to see it.
We can find it in ordinary things around us like the sun, the moon, trees or something as simple as a shade for sheep.
The poet gives more examples to show the richness of beauty around us, like flowers, rills and the mid-forest brake.
He also points out that we can find beauty in places where we generally do not look, like the reasons and circumstances behind the deaths of mighty heroes and warriors.
Beauty exists in intangible things like the stories that we read or hear.
The poet urges us to see the immense reserve of beauty around us.
He calls it an ‘endless fountain of immortal drink’: ‘endless’ because sources of beauty are limitless and ‘immortal’ to denote the effect of beauty on our minds.
The memory of a beautiful experience is forever.
It never dies.
We are blessed to experience beauty in all forms around us.
A direct reference to ‘heaven’ has been made to show that God has provided us with many sources of beauty.
As discussed earlier, this is a poem about the role of beauty in our lives and how it can refresh our perspective towards thinking.
Life has negative and positive aspects, but we can achieve the best by finding beauty in everything around us.
The types of things we can find beauty in can range from physical items to intangible things like feelings or ideas.
The result of experiencing a beautiful thing is immortal.
The joy that beauty brings is priceless and never fades – providing us with memories that can enrich our lives forever.
The poem begins with the poet urging everyone around to keep quiet.
This poem is about self-introspection, and he believes staying still is the best way to do it.
He offers to count till twelve to allow everyone some space and peace of mind.
As discussed in the introduction, this poem uses a lot of imagery and symbolism.
The poet suggests abstaining from speaking in any language or moving our arms at all.
Languages unite people and are the basis of continuous growth in any aspect of life – culture, education, industrialisation, diplomatic deals, etc.
Moving arms symbolise work, which is an essential part of our lives.
We strive to develop ourselves continuously, and the best way to attain success is through work.
The poet asks us to stop all these for some time.
The after-effects of this phenomenon are visualised by the poet to be very serene and thought-provoking.
He calls it an ‘exotic moment’.
He makes the reader understand its intensity through the use of imagery.
He predicts a ‘sudden strangeness’ when we all stop moving and the constant grunt of moving vehicles is paused.
He is trying to refer to a moment of uneasy silence that might seem awkward in the beginning.
But there are good consequences for this silence.
It will help us reflect on ourselves and might make us realise how we are hurting ourselves as well as others.
The poet here is trying to invoke some sense of humanity in his readers so that the earth is saved from the greed and ruthlessness we resort to in the name of creating civilisations.
He gives examples of how we are ruining everything around us.
Fishermen in the sea kill whales for their personal gains even if the whales have not harmed the fishermen.
A man gathering salt would understand how he is hurting himself if he looked at his injured hands.
The first example shows how innocence is being attacked for personal advantages.
The second example talks about how we ignore our health, happiness and relationships in pursuit of monetary fame and success.
Wars are another destructive outcome of negativity in humans.
The poet cites the types of wars – wars fought with gas or fire that harm the environment around us do no justice to us or the animals and other elements of nature around us.
These wars have no meaning, according to the poet, as no one wins.
It is humans who are harmed at the end of the day.
The poet believes that keeping quiet will inspire both war-mongers and victims to see the goodness in each other, and they will discover feelings of brotherhood among themselves once again.
The poet warns readers not to confuse staying still with complete inactivity.
He wants to clarify that his desire for a quiet world should not mean that we are not supposed to work or do anything at all.
The poet only wants the cruelty, violence and destructive activities to stop.
He wants us to appreciate nature and realise its role and value in our lives.
We take all kinds of precautions to live longer and avoid death.
This struggle for survival makes us unleash destruction and violence.
Perhaps a little bit of introspection and silence could reveal how we understand so little about ourselves and are terrified by the idea of death.
Finally, he cites the example of nature itself – how the Earth teaches us about rebirth and regeneration of life.
Various phenomena on earth like seasons or cycles of organic substances begin and end to repeat themselves all over again.
Winter seems to freeze everything but is followed by spring which brings new life and harmony to earth.
While summer symbolises the peak of growth and maturity, autumn comes to shed off all the old and unnecessary.
Life does not stop here.
Life is created again.
It is a cycle that never ends, and life and death are part of it.
There is no point in struggling or fighting for immortality.
The poet leaves the reader here on a note of silent introspection that implicitly urges humanity to realise its mistakes and move towards a more humane future.
Keeping Quiet is a poem that invokes us to reflect on our actions and their consequences.
The poet believes that silence is the way to start this process of reflection.
The poem is an appeal to understand the world, to seek peace and harmony in the world and to seek brotherhood for the betterment of all.
The poem has a powerful message but conveys it through a very subtle and serene tone.
Reading the summary of the poem Keeping Quiet Class will shed light on how attaining a peaceful state of mind and body should be our ultimate goal.
The poet describes the appearance of the students in an elementary school classroom in a slum.
He calls their faces far away from gusty waves.
Unlike the powerful waves on a beach, these children are weak, timid and do not have confidence in themselves.
The poet is using this analogy to show the difference between children brought up in well-to-do families and children brought up in slums.
Their place of origin defines their fate.
Their hair is devoid of nutrition, like rootless weeds and scattered around their pale faces.
There is a tall girl with her head bent down.
This shows the effect of malnutrition and family woes due to poverty.
She is not learning much as she is immersed in worry and anxiety.
A boy sitting in the classroom is so thin that he has no substantial body weight.
His eyes look like those of a rat – stealthy and hungry.
This is an indication of dire economic conditions in the slum.
Another student who is reading a poem has stunted growth, and the only thing that he could get as an inheritance was his father’s gnarled disease.
A student sitting in the farthest corner is absorbed in a daydream of squirrels playing on trees.
His mind is not in the classroom but in a world full of trees where squirrels are playing.
The poet then gives a description of the classroom in which the students are sitting.
It has walls that are sour cream in colour.
Due to the lack of renovation and constant exposure to dirt, the colour of the walls has faded.
Receipts of donations can be seen on the walls.
Clearly, the school does not have strong financial support and runs on the money donated to them as charity.
There are pictures of Shakespeare and the Tyrolese valley.
The poet reckons that these pictures add no value to the children’s education.
The bald head of Shakespeare looks like a dome that represents civilisation.
The poet uses the words ‘riding all cities’ to signify the hold of colonisation over countries that leads to exploitation.
The whole reference to Shakespeare is also indicative of British colonialism.
The Tyrolese valley represents a place the children dream of seeing.
The poet reveals another ironic stance where there is a map of the world on the walls, but for these slum children, the only world they have access to is the world outside their windows – the slum.
They have no future, and their world resembles a narrow street that is sealed with a lead sky.
The pollution and uncertainty of life in the slums have reduced the concept of a blue and open sky to a suffocating peril that looms over them.
Their world is far from rivers and capes, and the slum children remain unknown to the names of stars and constellations.
Shakespeare represents iniquity since civilisation is a far-fetched concept for the slum children, and they just feel small and insignificant compared to the sophisticated world of civilisation.
The map, with all its symbols of the sun and ships, just reminds them how far and inaccessible these are.
Since they cannot have good things in life, they are tempted to steal these.
The lives of these children are miserable.
They live in small houses that are devoid of space because all things are cramped together inside these.
The poet reminds us that their lives are hopeless – like living in constant fog or endless nights.
These children’s bodies are like heaps of industrial waste.
They are skinny with protruding bones, and they wear spectacles made of steel and mended glass.
All of their time and space is bleak as the fog.
So, the poet recommends that the maps in their classrooms be blotted with slums as slums are the only places they will ever know.
The poet advises not giving false hopes to the children unless lawful authorities can shatter this world of permanent tragedy around them.
Instead of the foggy windows through which children can only see the slum, the poet calls for the development of a system where the slum children can dream of seeing the rest of the world through their windows.
The whole town should be given importance in terms of development.
The children should be able to experience the sun, the green fields and the beaches.
They should have access to proper education so they can reach newer heights of success and make history.
An Elementary School Classroom in a Slum ends on a strong note with a message for the authorities.
He says that the slum children will be able to see a better and brighter future only if their path to development is made easy by the enforcement of necessary laws and granting of the right to a decent life by the government, police and visitors.
The slum children should get the right to education and easy access to the basic necessities of life.
If they can experience a childhood free of poverty and exploitation, they will be able to do something for themselves and their community in the future.
The poet tries to create a contrast between how the children live and how their actual lives should be.
In the slum, they are devoid of basic rights and resources.
This gives the impression of them living under suffocation like they are in a prison.
The ‘rivers, capes and stars of words’ represent a world of freedom, prosperity and knowledge that should be the actual life of the slum children.
One morning, around dawn, when Aram was nine years old, his fun-spirited cousin Mourad tapped on his window.
When Aram looked out of the window, he could not believe what he was seeing – his cousin Mourad was sitting on a beautiful white horse.
Mourad asked Aram to come down quickly if he wanted to ride the horse.
Aram stood there in utter awe and disbelief because there was no way Mourad could possess such a beautiful white horse.
While his family and his whole tribe suffered from poverty, their hallmark was honesty.
The whole Garoghlanian tribe was known for their honesty for many centuries.
They were proud, honest and justice-oriented.
There was no way Mourad could have stolen that horse.
But given their financial conditions, it was evident that Mourad had not bought the horse – he had stolen it.
Aram felt both frightened and delighted at the situation.
He asked his cousin why he had stolen the horse.
Mourad simply asked Aram if he wanted to go for a ride or not.
As Aram got up to dress, he engaged himself in thoughts – trying to justify Mourad’s actions.
He reasoned that stealing a horse for a ride was not the same as stealing something valuable as money.
It was not stealing at all, given how crazy Mourad and Aram were about horses.
It would be considered stealing if they offered to sell the horse.
It was something they would never do.
He leapt down to the yard from the window, and both went riding.
The horse went very fast, and Mourad started singing loudly – almost roaring.
Aram tells us about his cousin Mourad.
Like in every family, Mourad was considered to be the natural descendant of the crazy streak in their tribe – uncle Khosrove.
Although Mourad was considered to be the descendant of Uncle Khosrove, his father, Zorab, was nothing but a practical man by nature.
Uncle Khosrove was a man of furious temper and little patience.
He would stop people from saying anything by just roaring at them.
His classic response to any situation was to tell the person concerned not to bother about it.
It so happened that once Uncle Khorove’s son, Arak, went running to his father in the salon to tell him that their house was on fire.
Uncle Khosrove simply roared at his son, telling him to pay no attention to it.
After letting the horse run as much as he could, Mourad asked Aram to get down.
He wanted to ride the horse alone.
Aram asked Mourad if the latter would let him ride the horse alone.
Mourad’s reply was that it would be the horse’s decision.
As Aram saw his cousin kick into the horse and let it burst into a fury of speed, he felt like it was the loveliest thing he had ever seen.
Mourad rode the horse across a field over an irrigation ditch and returned five minutes later completely drenched in sweat.
He got off the horse and asked Aram to ride the horse.
Aram got on the horse and realised that the horse was not moving.
He felt scared.
Mourad instructed him to kick into the horse’s muscles.
The horse began to run, and Aram did not know how to guide it.
Instead of running across the field, the horse ran into the vineyard of Dikran Halabian and started leaping over the vines.
After going over seven vines, Aram fell off the horse, and the horse continued running.
Mourad and Aram went different ways looking for it, and the former returned half an hour later with the horse.
Aram discovered that Mourad had been riding the horse for quite some time.
But, when asked about it, Mourad only asked Aram to remember that they started riding the horse that morning.
Mourad took the horse to the barn of a deserted vineyard.
He informed Aram that it was not easy to get the horse to behave nicely in the beginning, but he had an understanding with horses.
Mourad explained that Aram would be able to understand horses when he reached thirteen years of age.
Uncle Khosrove came to Aram’s house that afternoon for coffee and cigarettes and sat there remembering the old country.
A farmer named John Byro arrived and started talking about his lost white horse.
It was stolen a month ago, and he was still not able to find it.
As usual, Uncle Khosrove told him not to bother about it.
John Byro talked about his plight – he could not operate his surrey without the horse, and his left leg hurt.
The horse had cost him sixty dollars.
Uncle Khosrove retorted that he spat on money and stormed out of the house.
Aram ran to Mourad after hearing this and told him all about John Byro and the horse.
He wanted Mourad to return the horse when he had learned to ride properly.
Mourad told him that it would take him at least a year to learn riding the horse.
Mourad did not want to keep the horse that long and decided that they would return the horse after six months.
They took the horse for a ride every morning for two weeks.
There seemed to be no improvement in Aram’s riding.
One morning, they ran into John Byro.
Mourad wanted to talk to the farmer, saying he had a way with farmers.
John Byro felt that this horse resembled his lost horse and wanted to inspect its teeth.
Mourad agreed.
John Byro informed Mourad that he would have definitely claimed that horse to be his if he did not know about their family’s reputation for honesty.
The next morning, Aram and Mourad took the horse back to John Byro’s.
The same afternoon, John Byro came to Aram’s house in his surrey and showed his found horse to Aram’s mother.
He informs Aram’s mother that the horse is stronger and more well-tempered than before.
The Summer of the Beautiful White Horse Summary is a depiction of innocence and curiosity during childhood.
The two Armenian boys – Mourad and Aram – are honest and do not want to really hurt anyone.
But their curiosity and desire to experience wonderful things lead them to commit wrong things.
Aram knows that Mourad has done a horrible thing, but the thrill of riding the beautiful white horse takes him away from all moral obligations.
He even tries to justify the action by assuming that it is not an act of stealing if they are passionate about riding horses.
However, as soon as Aram learns about the struggles faced by John Byro without his horse, the two boys return the horse.
The play starts with a scene of Mrs Pearson and Mrs Fitzgerald drinking tea during an afternoon in early autumn.
Mrs Fitzgerald is a fortune teller and is telling Mrs Pearson’s fortune.
Both of them have contrasting personalities.
While Mrs Pearson looks pleasant but anxious, Mrs Fitzgerald looks stronger with a sinister personality.
The former is in her forties, and the latter is older.
The conversation starts with Mrs Fitzgerald advising Mrs Pearson to take a stand and be the boss of her own family.
Mrs Pearson replies meekly that it was not that simple – she was still fond of them even if they were thoughtless and selfish.
Mrs Fitzgerald reminds her that it is not acceptable to be treated the way she was treated by her children and her husband.
Mrs Pearson replies dubiously that she does try to drop them a hint, and she does not know how to begin.
She looks at the clock and panics, saying they will be home soon and nothing is ready.
Mrs Fitzgerald tries to calm her down and asks Mrs Pearson to put her foot down, but Mrs Pearson does not seem to be sure about her capabilities.
To this, Mrs Fitzgerald replies that she will do it for Mrs Pearson.
The latter denies politely explaining that her husband and children would resent Mrs Fitzgerald.
Then Mrs Fitzgerald reveals her plan, which involves an exchange of their personalities.
She then takes Mrs Pearson’s hands and chants a spell, after which Mrs Pearson talks out of Mrs Fitzgerald’s body and vice versa.
Mrs Pearson, who is now Mrs Fitzgerald, sounded alarmed at this transformation and expressed her fear – in case they were not able to reverse their personalities into their own respective bodies.
Mrs Fitzgerald, who is now Mrs Pearson, convinced her not to worry and go to her home.
She could come back after some time to check on things.
Mrs Fitzgerald hurries back to her house while the real Mrs Fitzgerald, in the form of Mrs Pearson, waits for the children and husband to return home from work.
She smokes away carelessly, whereas the real Mrs Pearson has never smoked in her life.
The daughter Doris, a pretty young girl in her twenties, bursts inside the room asking her mother to iron her yellow silk dress because she is going out for the night.
She notices her mother smoking and starts questioning her.
Mrs Pearson calmy retaliates, saying there is no law against smoking.
When Doris asks her mother if tea is ready, Mrs Pearson informs her that she has had her tea and is thinking about going for dinner at Clarendon.
Doris, who has now become sulky, reminds her mother that she works hard and Mrs Pearson has always prepared tea and ironed clothes for her.
Mrs Pearson rebukes Doris’s comments and reminds her that she works twice as much as Doris but gets paid in neither wages nor thanks.
She also goes further to insult Charlie Spence, with whom Doris had planned to go out in the evening in her yellow dress.
Doris is on the verge of tears.
Mrs Pearson’s son Cyril arrives home after a while and starts asking for tea and things that he needs for going out in the evening.
In a similar manner to how she put down Doris, Mrs Pearson replies curtly to Cyril’s demands and queries – implying that she could not care less.
She reminds Cyril that everyone in the family expects her to listen to their rude comments and demands.
She has decided to fight against it just like Cyril goes to the Union in case of any discrepancies at work.
As Cyril stands there baffled by Mrs Peasrson’s unnatural behaviour, Doris joins him in the living room.
She had been crying, and her mother just aggravates the situation by telling her that a crying face does not suit her for an evening out with Charlie Spencer.
As Cyril tries to figure out what Mrs Pearson could have possibly said to Doris, he finds her looking for some stout in the kitchen.
Cyril and Doris talk to each other about the new development in Mrs Pearsons’s attitude.
They find the thought of their father dealing with Mrs Pearson’s behaviour funnily intriguing and wait for his arrival.
As Mrs Pearson enters the drawing room with her stout, she intercepts the siblings’ laughter and giggles and reprimands them for not behaving their age.
When Doris asks the reason behind her sudden change in behaviour, Mrs Pearson replies that all the family members do is come home, ask her for something and go back again.
She also threatens them by saying that her work of eight hours is done and that she might go for an outing during the weekend.
The husband, George, arrives home and is treated in the same way as Cyril and Doris.
Mrs Pearson also goes ahead to tell him how people at the club called him ‘Pompy-ompy George’.
Mrs Fitzgerald enters the house now and is worried about how Mrs Pearson is treating the family members.
She begs Mrs Pearson to stop, but the latter seems furious at her family’s behaviour and scolds them to learn some manners.
Mrs Fitzgerald asks Mrs Pearson to exchange their personalities back while Mrs Pearson is intent on doing some more reforms in the family members’ behaviours.
But Mrs Fitzgerald is no longer able to bear it, and Mrs Pearson exchanges their personalities back.
The original Mrs Pearson starts talking in a pleasant manner while Mrs Fitzgerald reminds her to be strict.
Mrs Pearson thus uses a strict tone with her family finally, and all seem to be aware of her problems and needs now.
Cyril, Doris and George become polite and understanding in their behaviour towards Mrs Pearson.
She proposes a nice game of rummy and asks them to help her with supper.
Mrs Fitzgerald wishes the family goodnight and leaves the house.
The play ends.